                                             StyleTTS 2: Towards Human-Level Text-to-Speech
                                           through Style Diffusion and Adversarial Training with
                                                     Large Speech Language Models


                                                               Yinghao Aaron Li Cong Han Vinay S. Raghavan




arXiv:2306.07691v2 [eess.AS] 20 Nov 2023
                                                                       Gavin Mischler Nima Mesgarani
                                                                              Columbia University
                                                            {yl4579,ch3212,vsr2119,gm2944,nm2764}@columbia.edu



                                                                                        Abstract
                                                    In this paper, we present StyleTTS 2, a text-to-speech (TTS) model that leverages
                                                    style diffusion and adversarial training with large speech language models (SLMs)
                                                    to achieve human-level TTS synthesis. StyleTTS 2 differs from its predecessor by
                                                    modeling styles as a latent random variable through diffusion models to generate
                                                    the most suitable style for the text without requiring reference speech, achieving
                                                    efficient latent diffusion while benefiting from the diverse speech synthesis offered
                                                    by diffusion models. Furthermore, we employ large pre-trained SLMs, such as
                                                    WavLM, as discriminators with our novel differentiable duration modeling for end-
                                                    to-end training, resulting in improved speech naturalness. StyleTTS 2 surpasses
                                                    human recordings on the single-speaker LJSpeech dataset and matches it on the
                                                    multispeaker VCTK dataset as judged by native English speakers. Moreover, when
                                                    trained on the LibriTTS dataset, our model outperforms previous publicly available
                                                    models for zero-shot speaker adaptation. This work achieves the first human-level
                                                    TTS on both single and multispeaker datasets, showcasing the potential of style
                                                    diffusion and adversarial training with large SLMs. The audio demos and source
                                                    code are available at https://styletts2.github.io/.


                                           1   Introduction
                                           Text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis has seen significant advancements in recent years, with numerous
                                           applications such as virtual assistants, audiobooks, and voice-over narration benefiting from increas-
                                           ingly natural and expressive synthetic speech [1, 2]. Some previous works have made significant
                                           progress towards human-level performance [3, 4, 5]. However, the quest for robust and accessible
                                           human-level TTS synthesis remains an ongoing challenge because there is still room for improvement
                                           in terms of diverse and expressive speech [5, 6], robustness for out-of-distribution (OOD) texts [7],
                                           and the requirements of massive datasets for high-performing zero-shot TTS systems [8].
                                           In this paper, we introduce StyleTTS 2, an innovative TTS model that builds upon the style-based
                                           generative model StyleTTS [6] to present the next step towards human-level TTS systems. We model
                                           speech styles as a latent random variable and sample them with a probabilistic diffusion model,
                                           allowing the model to efficiently synthesize highly realistic speech without the need for reference
                                           audio. Since it only needs to sample a style vector instead of the entire speech as a latent variable,
                                           StyleTTS 2 is faster than other diffusion TTS models while still benefiting from the diverse speech
                                           synthesis enabled by diffusion models. One of the key contributions of StyleTTS 2 is the use of
                                           large pre-trained speech language models (SLMs) like Wav2Vec 2.0 [9], HuBERT [10], and WavLM
                                           [11] as discriminators, in conjunction with a novel differentiable duration modeling approach. This
                                           end-to-end (E2E) training setup leverages SLM representations to enhance the naturalness of the
                                           synthesized speech, transferring knowledge from large SLMs for speech generation tasks.

                                           37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023).
Our evaluations suggest that speech generated by StyleTTS 2 surpasses human recordings as judged
by native English speakers on the benchmark LJSpeech [12] dataset with statistically significant
comparative mean opinion scores (CMOS) of +0.28 (p < 0.05). Additionally, StyleTTS 2 advances
the state-of-the-art by achieving a CMOS of +1.07 (p ≪ 0.01) compared to NaturalSpeech [5].
Furthermore, it attains human-level performance on the multispeaker VCTK dataset [13] in terms of
naturalness (CMOS = −0.02, p ≫ 0.05) and similarity (CMOS = +0.30, p < 0.1) to the reference
speaker. When trained on a large number of speakers like the LibriTTS dataset [14], StyleTTS 2
demonstrates potential for speaker adaptation. It surpasses previous publicly available models in
this task and outperforms Vall-E [8] in naturalness. Moreover, it achieves slightly worse similarity
to the target speaker with only a 3-second reference speech, despite using around 250 times less
data compared to Vall-E, making it a data-efficient alternative for large pre-training in the zero-shot
speaker adaptation task. As the first model to achieve human-level performance on publicly available
single and multispeaker datasets, StyleTTS 2 sets a new benchmark for TTS synthesis, highlighting
the potential of style diffusion and adversarial training with SLMs for human-level TTS synthesis.

2     Related Work
Diffusion Models for Speech Synthesis. Diffusion models have gained traction in speech synthesis
due to their potential for diverse speech sampling and fine-grained speech control [15]. They have
been applied to mel-based text-to-speech [16, 17, 18, 19, 20], mel-to-waveform vocoder [21, 22,
23, 24, 25, 26], and end-to-end speech generation [27, 28, 29]. However, their efficiency is limited
compared to non-iterative methods, like GAN-based models [30, 31, 32], due to the need to iteratively
sample mel-spectrograms, waveforms, or other latent representations proportional to the target
speech duration [15]. Furthermore, recent works suggest that state-of-the-art GAN-based models
still perform better than diffusion models in speech synthesis [26, 33]. To address these limitations,
we introduce style diffusion, where a fixed-length style vector is sampled by a diffusion model
conditioned on the input text. This approach significantly improves model speed and enables end-
to-end training. Notably, StyleTTS 2 synthesizes speech using GAN-based models, with only the
style vector dictating the diversity of speech sampled. This unique combination allows StyleTTS 2 to
achieve high-quality synthesis with fast inference speed while maintaining the benefits of diverse
speech generation, further advancing the capabilities of diffusion models in speech synthesis.
Text-to-Speech with Large Speech Language Models. Recent advancements have proven the
effectiveness of large-scale self-supervised speech language models (SLMs) in enhancing text-to-
speech (TTS) quality [34, 35, 36, 37] and speaker adaptation [8, 38, 29, 39]. These works typically
convert text input into either continuous or quantized representations derived from pre-trained SLMs
for speech reconstruction. However, SLM features are not directly optimized for speech synthesis,
while tuning SLMs as a neural codec [34, 35, 8, 29] involves two-stage training. In contrast, our
model benefits from the knowledge of large SLMs via adversarial training using SLM features without
latent space mapping, thus directly learning a latent space optimized for speech synthesis like other
end-to-end (E2E) TTS models. This innovative approach signifies a new direction in TTS with SLMs.
Human-Level Text-to-Speech. Several recent works have advanced towards human-level TTS
[3, 4, 5] using techniques like BERT pre-training [4, 40, 7] and E2E training [32, 5] with differentiable
duration modeling [41, 42]. VITS [3] demonstrates MOS comparable to human recordings on the
LJSpeech and VCTK datasets, while PnG-BERT [4] obtains human-level results on a proprietary
dataset. NaturalSpeech [5], in particular, achieves both MOS and CMOS on LJSpeech statistically
indistinguishable from human recordings. However, we find that there is still room for improvement
in speech quality beyond these state-of-the-art models, as we attain higher performance and set a new
standard for human-level TTS synthesis. Furthermore, recent work shows the necessity for disclosing
the details of evaluation procedures for TTS research [43]. Our evaluation procedures are detailed in
Appendix E, which can be used for reproducible future research toward human-level TTS.

3     Methods
3.1   StyleTTS Overview

StyleTTS [6] is a non-autoregressive TTS framework using a style encoder to derive a style vector
from reference audio, enabling natural and expressive speech generation. The style vector is incorpo-


                                                   2
rated into the decoder and duration and prosody predictors using adaptive instance normalization
(AdaIN) [44], allowing the model to generate speech with varying duration, prosody, and emotions.
The model comprises eight modules, organized into three categories: (1) a speech generation system
(acoustic modules) with a text encoder, style encoder, and speech decoder; (2) a TTS prediction
system with duration and prosody predictors; and (3) a utility system for training, including a
discriminator, text aligner, and pitch extractor. It undergoes a two-stage training process: the first
stage trains the acoustic modules for mel-spectrogram reconstruction, and the second trains TTS
prediction modules using the fixed acoustic modules trained in the first stage.
In the first stage, the text encoder T encodes input phonemes t into phoneme representations
htext = T (t), while the text aligner A extracts speech-phoneme alignment aalgn = A(x, t) from input
speech x and phonemes t to produce aligned phoneme representations halgn = htext · aalgn via dot
product. Concurrently, the style encoder E obtains the style vector s = E(x), and the pitch extractor
F extracts the pitch curve px = F (x) along with its energy nx = ∥x∥. Lastly, the speech decoder G
reconstructs x̂ = G (halgn , s, px , nx ), which is trained to match input x using a L1 reconstruction
loss Lmel and adversarial objectives Ladv , Lfm with a discriminator D. Transferable monotonic aligner
(TMA) objectives are also applied to learn optimal alignments (see Appendix G for details).
In the second stage, all components except the discriminator D are fixed, with only the duration
and prosody predictors being trained. The duration predictor S predicts the phoneme duration
with dpred = S(htext , s), whereas the prosody predictor P predicts pitch and energy as p̂x , n̂x =
P (htext , s). The predicted duration is trained to match the ground truth duration dgt derived from
the summed monotonic version of the alignment aalgn along the time axis with an L1 loss Ldur .
The predicted pitch p̂x and energy n̂x are trained to match the ground truth pitch px and energy
nx derived from pitch extractor F with L1 loss Lf 0 and Ln . During inference, dpred is used to
upsample htext through apred , the predicted alignment, obtained by repeating the value 1 for dpred [i]
times at ℓi−1 , where ℓi is the end position of the ith phoneme ti calculated by summing dpred [k] for
k ∈ {1, . . . , i}, and dpred [i] are the predicted duration of ti . The mel-spectrogram is synthesized by
xpred = G(htext · apred , E(x̃), p̂x̃ , n̂x̃ ) with x̃ an arbitrary reference audio that influences the style of
xpred , which is then converted into a waveform using a pre-trained vocoder.
Despite its state-of-the-art performance in synthesizing diverse and controllable speech, StyleTTS
has several drawbacks, such as a two-stage training process with an additional vocoding stage that
degrades sample quality, limited expressiveness due to deterministic generation, and reliance on
reference speech hindering real-time applications.

3.2     StyleTTS 2

StyleTTS 2 improves upon the StyleTTS framework, resulting in a more expressive text-to-speech
(TTS) synthesis model with human-level quality and improved out-of-distribution performance.
We introduce an end-to-end (E2E) training process that jointly optimizes all components, along
with direct waveform synthesis and adversarial training with large speech language models (SLMs)
enabled by our innovative differentiable duration modeling. The speech style is modeled as a latent
variable sampled through diffusion models, allowing diverse speech generation without reference
audio. We outline these important changes in the following sections with an overview in Figure 1.

3.2.1    End-to-End Training
E2E training optimizes all TTS system components for inference without relying on any fixed
components like pre-trained vocoders that convert mel-spectrograms into waveforms [3, 32]. To
achieve this, we modify the decoder G to directly generate the waveform from the style vector,
aligned phoneme representations, and pitch and energy curves. We remove the last projection layer
for mel-spectrograms of the decoder and append a waveform decoder after it. We propose two types
of decoders: HifiGAN-based and iSTFTNet-based. The first is based on Hifi-GAN [30], which
directly generates the waveform. In contrast, the iSTFTNet-based decoder [45] produces magnitude
and phase, which are converted into waveforms using inverse short-time Fourier transform for faster
training and inference. We employ the snake activation function [46], proven effective for waveform
generation in [31]. An AdaIN module [44] is added after each activation function to model the style
dependence of the speech, similar to the original StyleTTS decoder. We replace the mel-discriminator
in [6] with the multi-period discriminator (MPD) [30] and multi-resolution discriminator (MRD)


                                                       3
                                          Mel-Spectrogram                                                   Phonemes


   Prosodic Style       Acoustic Style                                                                  Acoustic Text        Prosodic Text                    Duration
      Encoder                                  Pitch Extractor                Text Aligner
                          Encoder                                                                         Encoder              Encoder                        Predictor


                                                                                                                                                              Prosody
                                                                                                                                                              Predictor


                                                                                                             Reconstructed
                                                                                                              Waveform       Style Diffusion
                                                                                                                               Denoiser
                                                                                              Decoder


                                                                                                             MPD    MRD




(a) Acoustic modules pre-training and joint training. To accelerate training, the pre-training first optimize
modules inside the blue box; the joint training then follows to optimize all components except the pitch extractor,
which is used to provide the ground truth label for pitch curves. The duration predictor is trained with only Ldur .
             Phonemes                                                                                                                          Acoustic modules


            Acoustic Text       Prosodic Text                                              Prosody
                                                                                                                                           TTS prediction modules
              Encoder             Encoder                                                  Predictior
                                                                                                                                                    Block

                                   Duration                 Style Diffusion                                                               Utility modules for training
                                   Predictor                   Sampler
                                   Upsample
                                                                                                                                        Acoustic modules pre-training


                                                                                                                                                 Joint training

              Decoder
                                                                                                                                        Acoustic modules pre-training
                                                                                                                                                  scheme

                                                                      Discriminative
                               WavLM                                      Head
                                                                                            Real or Fake?
                                                                                                                                               SLM discriminator
             Synthesized
             Waveforms


     (b) SLM adversarial training and inference. WavLM is pre-trained and not tuned. Unlike (a),
     the duration predictor is trained E2E with all components using Lslm (eq. 5) via differentiable
     upsampling. This process is separate from (a) during training as the input texts can be different, but
     the gradients are accumulated for both processes in each batch to update the parameters.
Figure 1: Training and inference scheme of StyleTTS 2 for the single-speaker case. For the multi-
speaker case, the acoustic and prosodic style encoders (denoted as E) first take reference audio xref
of the target speaker and produce a reference style vector c = E(xref ). The style diffusion model
then takes c as a reference to sample sp and sa that correspond to the speaker in xref .

[47] along with the LSGAN loss functions [48] for decoder training, and incorporate the truncated
pointwise relativistic loss function [49] to enhance sound quality (see Appendix F and G for details).
We found that well-trained acoustic modules, especially the style encoder, can accelerate the training
process for TTS prediction modules. Therefore, before jointly optimizing all components, we first
pre-train the acoustic modules along with the pitch extractor and text aligner via Lmel , Ladv , Lfm and
TMA objectives for N epochs where N depends on the size of the training set, in the same way as
the first training stage of [6]. However, we note that this pre-training is not an absolute necessity:
despite being slower, starting joint training directly from scratch also leads to model convergence,
After acoustic module pre-training, we jointly optimize Lmel , Ladv , Lfm , Ldur , Lf0 and Ln , where Lmel
is modified to match the mel-spectrograms of waveforms reconstructed from predicted pitch p̂x and
energy n̂x (Fig 1a). During joint training, stability issues emerge from diverging gradients, as the
style encoder must encode both acoustic and prosodic information. To address this inconsistency, we
introduce a prosodic style encoder Ep alongside the original acoustic style encoder Ea , previously
denoted as E in section 3.1. Instead of using sa = Ea (x), predictors S and P take sp = Ep (x) as
the input style vector. The style diffusion model generates the augmented style vector s = [sp , sa ].
This modification effectively improves sample quality (see section 5.3). To further decouple the
acoustic modules and predictors, we replace the phoneme representations htext from T , now referred
to as acoustic text encoder, with hbert from another text encoder B based on BERT transformers,
denoted as prosodic text encoder. Specifically, we employ a phoneme-level BERT [7] pre-trained on
extensive corpora of Wikipedia articles as the prosodic text encoder. This approach has been shown
to enhance the naturalness of StyleTTS in the second stage [7], similar to our proposed usage here.


                                                                                       4
With differentiable upsampling and fast style diffusion, we can generate speech samples during
training in a fully differentiable manner, just as during inference. These samples are used to optimize
Lslm (eq. 5) during joint training to update the parameters of all components for inference (Fig 1b).

3.2.2     Style Diffusion
                                                                                   R
In StyleTTS 2, we model the speech x as a conditional distribution p(x|t) = p(x|t, s)p(s|t) ds
through a latent variable s that follows the distribution p(s|t). We call this variable the generalized
speech style, representing any characteristic in speech beyond phonetic content t, including but not
limited to prosody, lexical stress, formant transitions, and speaking rate [6]. We sample s by EDM
[50] that follows the combined probability flow [51] and time-varying Langevin dynamics [52]:
                  Z                                                       Z p
             s=       −σ(τ ) [β(τ )σ(τ ) + σ̇(τ )] ∇s log pτ (s|t) dτ +      2β(τ )σ(τ ) dW̃τ ,        (1)
where σ(τ ) is the noise level schedule and σ̇(τ ) is its time derivative, β(τ ) is the stochasticity term,
W̃τ is the backward Wiener process for τ ∈ [T, 0] and ∇s log pτ (s|t) is the score function at time τ .
We follow the EDM [50] formulation with the denoiser K(s; t, σ) preconditioned as:
                                                                             
                                      σ
                                         data
                                                2 σ · σdata       s     1
                     K(s; t, σ) :=            s+             ·V      ; t, ln σ ,                  (2)
                                         σ∗           σ∗          σ∗     4
                                                                  2
where p σ follows a log-normal distribution ln σ ∼ N (Pmean , Pstd  ) with Pmean = −1.2, Pstd = 1.2,
 ∗          2     2
σ := σ + σdata is the scaling term, σdata = 0.2 is the empirical estimate of the standard deviation
of style vectors, and V is a 3-layer transformer [53] conditioned on t and σ which is trained with:
                                           h                                       i
                                                                                 2
                  Ledm = Ex,t,σ,ξ∼N (0,I) λ(σ) ∥K(E(x) + σξ; t, σ) − E(x)∥2 ,                     (3)

where E(x) := [Ea (x), Ep (x)], and λ(σ) := (σ ∗ /(σ · σdata ))2 is the weighting factor. Under this
framework, equation 16 becomes an ODE where the score function depends on σ instead of τ :
             ds                           s − K(s; t, σ)
                 = −σ∇s log pσ (s|t) =                   ,    s(σ(T )) ∼ N (0, σ(T )2 I).           (4)
             dσ                                  σ
Unlike [50] that uses 2nd-order Heun, we solve eq. 4 with the ancestral DPM-2 solver [54] for fast
and diverse sampling as we demand speed more than accuracy. On the other hand, we use the same
scheduler as in [50] with σmin = 0.0001, σmax = 3 and ρ = 9. This combination allows us to sample
a style vector for high-quality speech synthesis with only three steps, equivalent to running a 9-layer
transformer model, minimally impacting the inference speed (see Appendix B for more discussions).
V conditions on t through hbert concatenated with the noisy input E(x) + σξ, and σ is conditioned
via sinusoidal positional embeddings [53]. In the multispeaker setting, we model p(s|t, c) by
K(s; t, c, σ) with an additional speaker embedding c = E(xref ) where xref is the reference audio of
the target speaker. The speaker embedding c is injected into V by adaptive layer normalization [6].

3.2.3     SLM Discriminators
Speech language models (SLMs) encode valuable information ranging from acoustic to semantic
aspects [55], and SLM representations are shown to mimic human perception for evaluating synthe-
sized speech quality [45]. We uniquely transfer knowledge from SLM encoders to generative tasks
via adversarial training by employing a 12-layer WavLM [11] pre-trained on 94k hours of data 1 as
the discriminator. As the number of parameters of WavLM is greater than StyleTTS 2, to avoid dis-
criminator overpowering, we fix the pre-trained WavLM model W and append a convolutional neural
network (CNN) C as the discriminative head. We denote the SLM discriminator DSLM = C ◦ W .
The input audios are downsampled to 16 kHz before being fed into DSLM to match that of WavLM.
C pools features hSLM = W (x) from all layers with a linear map from 13 × 768 to 256 channels.
We train the generator components (T, B, G, S, P, V , denoted as G) and DSLM to optimize:

               Lslm = min max (Ex [log DSLM (x)] + Et [log (1 − DSLM (G(t)))]) ,                       (5)
                            G DSLM

   1
       Available at https://huggingface.co/microsoft/wavlm-base-plus


                                                     5
where G(t) is the generated speech with text t, and x is the human recording. [56] shows that:

                                  ∗                   PW ◦T (x)
                                 DSLM (x) =                           ,                                   (6)
                                                PW ◦T (x) + PW ◦G (x)
         ∗
where DSLM    (x) is the optimal discriminator, T and G represent true and generated data distributions,
while PT and PG are their respective densities. The optimal G∗ is achieved if PW ◦T = PW ◦G , mean-
ing that when converged, G∗ matches the generated and true distributions in the SLM representation
space, effectively mimicking human perception to achieve human-like speech synthesis.
In equation 5, the generator loss is independent of ground truth x and relies only on input text t. This
enables training on out-of-distribution (OOD) texts, which we show in section 5.3 can improve the
performance on OOD texts. In practice, to prevent DSLM from over-fitting on the content of the
speech, we sample in-distribution and OOD texts with equal probability during training.

3.2.4   Differentiable Duration Modeling
The duration predictor produces phoneme durations dpred , but the upsampling method described in
section 3.1 to obtain apred is not differentiable, blocking gradient flow for E2E training. NaturalSpeech
[5] employs an attention-based upsampler [42] for human-level TTS. However, we find this approach
unstable during adversarial training because we train our model using differentiable upsampling
with only the adversarial objective described in eq. 5 and without extra loss terms due to the length
mismatch caused by deviations of dpred from dgt . Although this mismatch can be mitigated with soft
dynamic time warping as used in [42, 5], we find this approach both computationally expensive and
unstable with mel-reconstruction and adversarial objectives. To achieve human-level performance
with adversarial training, a non-parametric upsampling method is preferred for stable training.
Gaussian upsampling [41] is non-parametric and converts the predicted duration dpred into apred [n, i]
using a Gaussian kernel Nci (n; σ) centered at ci := ℓi − 12 dpred [i] with the hyperparameter σ:
                                                                                       i
                                 (n − ci )2
                                                                                     X
             Nci (n; σ) := exp −              ,              (7)               ℓi :=         dpred [k],   (8)
                                    2σ 2
                                                                                       k=1

where ℓi is the end position and ci is the center position of the ith phoneme ti . However, Gaussian
upsampling has limitations due to its fixed width of Gaussian kernels determined by σ. This constraint
prevents it from accurately modeling alignments with varying lengths depending on dpred . Non-
attentive Tacotron [57] extends this by making σi trainable, but the trained parameters introduce
instability for E2E training with adversarial loss, similar to issues of attention-based upsamplers.
We propose a new non-parametric differentiable upsampler without additional training while taking
into account the varying length of the alignment. For each phoneme ti , we model the alignment as a
random variable ai ∈ N, indicating the index of the speech frame the phoneme ti is aligned with. We
define the duration of the ith phoneme as another random variable di ∈ {1, . . . , L}, where L = 50
is the maximum phoneme duration hyperparameter, equivalent to 1.25 seconds in our setting. We
                   Pi
observe that ai =      dk , but each dk is dependent on each other, making the sum difficult to model.
                   k=1
Instead, we approximate ai = di + ℓi−1 . The approximated probability mass function (PMF) of ai is
                                                                  X
                fai [n] = fdi +ℓi−1 [n] = fdi [n] ∗ fℓi−1 [n] =        fdi [k] · δℓi−1 [n − k],           (9)
                                                                   k

where δℓi−1 is the PMF of ℓi−1 , a constant defined in eq. 8. This delta function is not differentiable,
so we replace it with Nℓi−1 defined in eq. 7 with σ = 1.5 (see Appendix C.2 for more discussions).
To model fdi , we modify the duration predictor to output q[k, i], the probability of the ith phoneme hav-
ing a duration of at least k for k ∈ {1, . . . , L}, optimized to be 1 when dgt ≥ k with the cross-entropy
                                                                                     PL
loss (see Appendix G). Under this new scheme, we can approximate dpred [i] :=            q[k, i], trained to
                                                                                         k=1
match dgt with Ldur as in section 3.1. The vector q[:, i] can be viewed as the unnormalized version of
fdi , though it is trained to be uniformly distributed across the interval [1, di ]. Since the number of
speech frames M is usually larger than the number of input phonemes N , this uniform distribution


                                                     6
aligns single phonemes to multiple speech frames as desired. Finally, we normalize the differentiable
approximation f˜ai [n] across the phoneme axis, as in [41], to obtain apred using the softmax function:
                            ˜
                          e(fai [n]))                            M̂
          apred [n, i] := N           , (10)                    X
                          P (f˜a [n])               f˜ai [n] :=     q[n, i] · Nℓi−1 (n − k; σ),   (11)
                            e i                                 k=0
                             i=1
where M̂ := ⌈ℓN ⌉ is the predicted total duration of the speech and n ∈ {1, . . . , M̂ }. An illustration
of our proposed differentiable duration modeling is given in Figure 4 (Appendix C).


4         Experiments

4.1        Model Training

We performed experiments on three datasets: LJSpeech, VCTK, and LibriTTS. Our single-speaker
model was trained on the LJSpeech dataset, consisting of 13,100 short audio clips totaling roughly
24 hours. This dataset was divided into training (12,500 samples), validation (100 samples), and
testing (500 samples) sets, with the same split as [3, 5, 6]. The multispeaker model was trained on
VCTK, comprising nearly 44,000 short clips from 109 native speakers with various accents. The data
split was the same as [3], with 43,470 samples for training, 100 for validation, and 500 for testing.
Lastly, we trained our model on the combined LibriTTS train-clean-460 subset [14] for zero-shot
adaptation. This dataset contains about 245 hours of audio from 1,151 speakers. Utterances longer
than 30 seconds or shorter than one second were excluded. We distributed this dataset into training
(98%), validation (1%), and testing (1%) sets, in line with [6]. The test-clean subset was used for
zero-shot adaptation evaluation with 3-second reference clips. All datasets were resampled to 24 kHz
to match LibriTTS, and the texts were converted into phonemes using phonemizer [58].
We used texts in the training split of LibriTTS as the out-of-distribution (OOD) texts for SLM
adversarial training. We used iSTFTNet decoder for LJSpeech due to its speed and sufficient
performance on this dataset, while the HifiGAN decoder was used for the VCTK and LibriTTS
models. Acoustic modules were pre-trained for 100, 50, and 30 epochs on the LJSpeech, VCTK, and
LibriTTS datasets, and joint training followed for 60, 40, and 25 epochs, respectively. We employed
the AdamW optimizer [59] with β1 = 0, β2 = 0.99, weight decay λ = 10−4 , learning rate γ = 10−4
and a batch size of 16 samples for both pre-training and joint training. The loss weights were adopted
from [6] to balance all loss terms (see Appendix G for details). Waveforms were randomly segmented
with a max length of 3 seconds. For SLM adversarial training, both the ground truth and generated
samples were ensured to be 3 to 6 seconds in duration, the same as in fine-tuning of WavLM models
for various downstream tasks [11]. Style diffusion steps were randomly sampled from 3 to 5 during
training for speed and set to 5 during inference for quality. The training was conducted on four
NVIDIA A40 GPUs.

4.2        Evaluations

We employed two metrics in our experiments: Mean Opinion Score of Naturalness (MOS-N) for
human-likeness, and Mean Opinion Score of Similarity (MOS-S) for similarity to the reference
for multi-speaker models. These evaluations were conducted by native English speakers from the
U.S. on Amazon Mechanical Turk. All evaluators reported normal hearing and provided informed
consent as monitored by the local institutional review board and in accordance with the ethical
standards of the Declaration of Helsinki 2 . In each test, 80 random text samples from the test set
were selected and converted into speech using our model and the baseline models, along with ground
truth for comparison. Because [7] reported that many TTS models perform poorly for OOD texts, our
LJSpeech experiments also included 40 utterances from Librivox spoken by the narrator of LJSpeech
but from audiobooks not in the original dataset as the ground truth for OOD texts. To compare
the difference between in-distribution and OOD performance, we asked the same raters to evaluate
samples on both in-distribution and OOD texts.
Our baseline models consisted of the three highest-performing public models: VITS [3], StyleTTS [6],
and JETS [32] for LJSpeech; and VITS, YourTTS [60], and StyleTTS for LibriTTS. Each synthesized
      2
          We obtained approval for our protocol (number IRB-AAAR8655) from the Institutional Review Board.


                                                        7
Table 1: Comparative mean opinion scores of naturalness and similarity for StyleTTS 2 with p-values
from Wilcoxon test relative to other models. Positive scores indicate StyleTTS 2 is better.

       Model            Dataset                       CMOS-N (p-value)     CMOS-S (p-value)
       Ground Truth     LJSpeech                      +0.28 (p = 0.021)             —
       NaturalSpeech    LJSpeech                      +1.07 (p < 10−6 )             —
       Ground Truth     VCTK                          −0.02 (p = 0.628)    +0.30 (p = 0.081)
       VITS             VCTK                          +0.45 (p = 0.009)    +0.43 (p = 0.032)
       Vall-E           LibriSpeech (zero-shot)       +0.67 (p < 10−3 )     −0.47 (p < 10−3 )

speech set was rated by 5 to 10 evaluators on a 1-5 scale, with increments of 0.5. We randomized
the model order and kept their labels hidden, similar to the MUSHRA approach [61, 62]. We also
conducted Comparative MOS (CMOS) tests to determine statistical significance, as raters can ignore
subtle differences in MOS experiments [3, 7, 5]. Raters were asked to listen to two samples and rate
whether the second was better or worse than the first on a -6 to 6 scale with increments of 1. We
compared our model to the ground truth and NaturalSpeech [5] for LJSpeech, and the ground truth
and VITS for VCTK. For the zero-shot experiment, we compared our LibriTTS model to Vall-E [8].
All baseline models, except for the publicly available VITS model on LibriTTS from ESPNet Toolkit
[63], were official checkpoints released by the authors, including vocoders used in StyleTTS. As
NaturalSpeech and Vall-E are not publicly available, we obtained samples from the authors and the
official Vall-E demo page, respectively. For fairness, we resampled all audio to 22.5 kHz for LJSpeech
and VCTK, and 16 kHz for LibriTTS, to match the baseline models. We conducted ablation studies
using CMOS-N on LJSpeech on OOD texts from LibriTTS test-clean subset for more pronounced
results as in [7]. For more details of our evaluation procedures, please see Appendix E.

5     Results
5.1   Model Performance

The results outlined in Table 1 establish that StyleTTS 2 outperforms NaturalSpeech by achieving
a CMOS of +1.07 (p ≪ 0.01), setting a new standard for this dataset. Interestingly, StyleTTS 2
was favored over the ground truth with a CMOS of +0.28 (p < 0.05). This preference may stem
from dataset artifacts such as fragmented audiobook passages in the LJSpeech dataset that disrupt
narrative continuity, thus rendering the ground truth narration seemingly unnatural. This hypothesis is
corroborated by the performance of StyleTTS 2 on the VCTK dataset, which lacks narrative context,
where it performs comparably to the ground truth (CMOS = −0.02, p ≫ 0.05). Samples from our
model were more similar to the reference audio speaker than the human recording, suggesting our
model’s effective use of the reference audio for style diffusion. Moreover, StyleTTS 2 scored higher
than the previous state-of-the-art model VITS on VCTK, as evidenced by CMOS-N and CMOS-S.
Consistent with the CMOS results, our model achieved a MOS of 3.83, surpassing all previous
models on LJSpeech (Table 2). In addition, all models, except ours, exhibited some degrees of
quality degradation for out-of-distribution (OOD) texts. This corroborates the gap reported in [7],
with our results providing additional ground truth references. On the other hand, our model did not
show any degradation and significantly outperformed other models in MOS for OOD texts (Table 2),
demonstrating its strong generalization ability and robustness towards OOD texts.
In zero-shot tests, StyleTTS 2 surpasses Table 2: Comparison of MOS with 95% confidence in-
Vall-E in naturalness with a CMOS tervals (CI) on LJSpeech. MOSID represents MOS-N for
of +0.67 (p ≪ 0.01), although it falls in-distribution texts, while MOSOOD is that for OOD texts.
slightly short in similarity (Table 1). Im- Model                  MOSID (CI)     MOSOOD (CI)
portantly, StyleTTS 2 achieved these re-
sults with only 245 hours of training        Ground Truth          3.81 (± 0.09) 3.70 (± 0.11)
data, compared to Vall-E’s 60k hours, a      StyleTTS 2            3.83 (± 0.08) 3.87 (± 0.08)
250x difference. This makes StyleTTS         JETS                  3.57 (± 0.09) 3.21 (± 0.12)
2 a data-efficient alternative to large pre- VITS                  3.34 (± 0.10) 3.21 (± 0.11)
training methods like Vall-E. The MOS        StyleTTS + HifiGAN 3.35 (± 0.10) 3.32 (± 0.12)
results in Table 3 support these findings,
as our model exceeds all baseline models in both MOS-N and MOS-S. However, the difference in


                                                  8
         (a) LJSpeech model.        (b) Unseen speakers on LibriTTS. (c) Zoomed-in unseen speaker.

Figure 2: t-SNE visualization of style vectors sampled via style diffusion from texts in five emotions,
showing that emotions are properly separated for seen and unseen speakers. (a) Clusters of emotion
from styles sampled by the LJSpeech model. (b) Distinct clusters of styles sampled from 5 unseen
speakers by the LibriTTS model. (c) Loose clusters of emotions from Speaker 1 in (b).

MOS-S between StyleTTS and StyleTTS 2 was not statistically significant, hinting at future directions
for improvement in speaker similarity.

5.2   Style Diffusion

Figure 2 shows t-SNE visual- Table 3: Comparison of MOS with 95% confidence intervals (CI)
izations of style vectors created on test-clean subset of LibriTTS for zero-shot speaker adaptation.
using our style diffusion pro-            Model                      MOS-N (CI)        MOS-S (CI)
cess. Due to the lack of emotion-
labeled audiobook text datasets,          Ground Truth               4.60 (± 0.09) 4.35 (± 0.10)
we used GPT-4 to generate 500             StyleTTS 2                 4.15 (± 0.11) 4.03 (± 0.11)
utterances across five emotions           YourTTS                    2.35 (± 0.07) 2.42 (± 0.09)
for this task [64]. In Figure 2a,         VITS                       3.69 (± 0.12) 3.54 (± 0.13)
style vectors from the LJSpeech           StyleTTS + HiFi-GAN 3.91 (± 0.11) 4.01 (± 0.10)
model illustrate distinct emo-
tional styles in response to input text sentiment, demonstrating the model’s capability to synthesize
expressive speech in varied emotions without explicit emotion labels during training. This process
was repeated with the LibriTTS model on five unseen speakers, each from a 3-second reference audio.
As depicted in Figure 2b, distinct clusters form for each speaker, showcasing a wide stylistic diversity
derived from a single reference audio. Figure 2c provides a more nuanced view of the first speaker,
revealing visible emotion-based clusters despite some overlaps, indicating that we can manipulate the
emotional tone of an unseen speaker regardless of the tones in the reference audio. These overlaps,
however, can partly explain why the LibriTTS model does not perform as well as the LJSpeech
model, as it is harder to disentangle texts from speakers in the zero-shot setting (see Appendix A.2 for
more results). Table 4 displays our synthesized speech diversity against several baseline models with
the coefficient of variation of duration (CVdur ) and pitch curve (CVf0 ) from the same input text [3].
Our model yields the highest variation, indicating superior potential for generating diverse speech.
Despite being diffusion-based, our model is faster than VITS, FastDiff [28], and ProDiff [18], two of
the fastest diffusion-based TTS models, with 5 iterations of diffusion and iSTFTNet decoder.

5.3   Ablation Study

Table 4: Speech diversity metrics and real-time        Table 5: CMOS-N relative to the StyleTTS 2
factor (RTF). ProDiff and FastDiff were tested         baseline on OOD texts in the ablation study.
with 4 steps of diffusion.
                                                         Model                            CMOS-N
  Model           CVdur ↑      CVf0 ↑   RTF ↓
                                                         w/o style diffusion                −0.46
  StyleTTS 2      0.0321       0.6962   0.0185           w/o differentiable upsampler       −0.21
  VITS            0.0214       0.5976   0.0599           w/o SLM adversarial training       −0.32
  FastDiff        0.0295       0.6490   0.0769           w/o prosodic style encoder         −0.35
  ProDiff         2e-16        0.5898   0.1454           w/o OOD texts                      −0.15


                                                   9
Table 5 details the ablation study, underlying the importance of our proposed components. When
style vectors from style diffusion are substituted with randomly encoded ones as in [6], the CMOS is
−0.46, highlighting the contribution of text-dependent style diffusion to achieving human-level TTS.
Training without our differentiable upsampler and without the SLM discriminator results in a CMOS
of −0.21 and −0.32, validating their key roles in natural speech synthesis. Removing the prosodic
style encoder also yields a −0.35 CMOS. Last, excluding OOD texts from adversarial training leads
to a CMOS of −0.15, proving its efficacy for improving OOD speech synthesis. Table 6 in Appendix
A.3 shows similar outcomes with objective evaluations, further affirming the effectiveness of various
components we proposed in this work. Figure 7 in Appendix D details a layer-wise analysis of input
weights of the SLM discriminator, providing a different view of the efficacy of SLM discriminators.


6   Conclusions and Limitations

In this study, we present StyleTTS 2, a novel text-to-speech (TTS) model with human-level perfor-
mance via style diffusion and speech language model discriminators. In particular, it exceeds the
ground truth on LJSpeech and performs on par with it on the VCTK dataset. StyleTTS 2 also shows
potential for zero-shot speaker adaption, with remarkable performance even on limited training data
compared to large-scale models like Vall-E. With our innovative style diffusion method, StyleTTS 2
generates expressive and diverse speech of superior quality while ensuring fast inference time. While
StyleTTS 2 excels in several areas, our results indicate room for improvement in handling large-scale
datasets such as LibriTTS, which contain thousands of or more speakers, acoustic environments,
accents, and other various aspects of speaking styles. The speaker similarity in the aforementioned
zero-shot adaptation speaker task could also benefit from further improvements.
However, zero-shot speaker adaptation has the potential for misuse and deception by mimicking the
voices of individuals as a potential source of misinformation or disinformation. This could lead to
harmful, deceptive interactions such as theft, fraud, harassment, or impersonations of public figures
that may influence political processes or trust in institutions. In order to manage the potential for
harm, we will require users of our model to adhere to a code of conduct that will be clearly displayed
as conditions for using the publicly available code and models. In particular, we will require users to
inform those listening to samples synthesized by StyleTTS 2 that they are listening to synthesized
speech or to obtain informed consent regarding the use of samples synthesized by StyleTTS 2 in
experiments. Users will also be required to use reference speakers who have given consent to have
their voice adapted, either directly or by license. Finally, we will make the source code publicly
available for further research in speaker fraud and impersonation detection.
In addition, while human evaluators have favored StyleTTS 2 over ground truth with statistical
significance on the LJSpeech dataset, this preference may be context-dependent. Original audio
segments from larger contexts like audiobooks could inherently differ in naturalness when isolated,
potentially skewing the evaluations in favor of synthesized speech. Additionally, the inherent
variability in human speech, which is context-independent, might lead to lower ratings when compared
to the more uniform output from StyleTTS 2. Future research should aim to improve evaluation
methods to address these limitations and develop more natural and human-like speech synthesis
models with longer context dependencies.


7   Acknowledgments

We thank Menoua Keshishian, Vishal Choudhari, and Xilin Jiang for helpful discussions and feedback
on the paper. We also thank Grace Wilsey, Elden Griggs, Jacob Edwards, Rebecca Saez, Moises
Rivera, Rawan Zayter, and D.M. for assessing the quality of synthesized samples and providing
feedback on the quality of models during the development stage of this work. This work was funded
by the national institute of health (NIHNIDCD) and a grant from Marie-Josee and Henry R. Kravis.


References
 [1] Yishuang Ning, Sheng He, Zhiyong Wu, Chunxiao Xing, and Liang-Jie Zhang. A review of
     deep learning based speech synthesis. Applied Sciences, 9(19):4050, 2019.


                                                  10
 [2] Xu Tan, Tao Qin, Frank Soong, and Tie-Yan Liu. A survey on neural speech synthesis. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2106.15561, 2021.
 [3] Jaehyeon Kim, Jungil Kong, and Juhee Son. Conditional variational autoencoder with adversar-
     ial learning for end-to-end text-to-speech. In International Conference on Machine Learning,
     pages 5530–5540. PMLR, 2021.
 [4] Ye Jia, Heiga Zen, Jonathan Shen, Yu Zhang, and Yonghui Wu. PnG BERT: Augmented BERT
     on phonemes and graphemes for neural TTS. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.15060, 2021.
 [5] Xu Tan, Jiawei Chen, Haohe Liu, Jian Cong, Chen Zhang, Yanqing Liu, Xi Wang, Yichong Leng,
     Yuanhao Yi, Lei He, Frank K. Soong, Tao Qin, Sheng Zhao, and Tie-Yan Liu. NaturalSpeech:
     End-to-End Text to Speech Synthesis with Human-Level Quality. ArXiv, abs/2205.04421, 2022.
 [6] Yinghao Aaron Li, Cong Han, and Nima Mesgarani. StyleTTS: A Style-Based Generative
     Model for Natural and Diverse Text-to-Speech Synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.15439,
     2022.
 [7] Yinghao Aaron Li, Cong Han, Xilin Jiang, and Nima Mesgarani. Phoneme-Level Bert for
     Enhanced Prosody of Text-To-Speech with Grapheme Predictions. In ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE
     International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP). IEEE, 2023.
 [8] Chengyi Wang, Sanyuan Chen, Yu Wu, Ziqiang Zhang, Long Zhou, Shujie Liu, Zhuo Chen,
     Yanqing Liu, Huaming Wang, Jinyu Li, et al. Neural Codec Language Models are Zero-Shot
     Text to Speech Synthesizers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.02111, 2023.
 [9] Alexei Baevski, Yuhao Zhou, Abdelrahman Mohamed, and Michael Auli. wav2vec 2.0:
     A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representations. Advances in neural
     information processing systems, 33:12449–12460, 2020.
[10] Wei-Ning Hsu, Benjamin Bolte, Yao-Hung Hubert Tsai, Kushal Lakhotia, Ruslan Salakhutdinov,
     and Abdelrahman Mohamed. HuBERT: Self-Supervised Speech Representation Learning by
     Masked Prediction of Hidden Units. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and Language
     Processing, 29:3451–3460, 2021.
[11] Sanyuan Chen, Chengyi Wang, Zhengyang Chen, Yu Wu, Shujie Liu, Zhuo Chen, Jinyu Li,
     Naoyuki Kanda, Takuya Yoshioka, Xiong Xiao, et al. WavLM: Large-Scale Self-Supervised
     Pre-Training for Full Stack Speech Processing. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal
     Processing, 16(6):1505–1518, 2022.
[12] Keith Ito and Linda Johnson.           The lj speech dataset.      https://keithito.com/
     LJ-Speech-Dataset/, 2017.
[13] Junichi Yamagishi, Christophe Veaux, Kirsten MacDonald, et al. CSTR VCTK Corpus: English
     Multi-Speaker Corpus for CSTR Voice Cloning Toolkit (version 0.92). 2019.
[14] Heiga Zen, Viet Dang, Rob Clark, Yu Zhang, Ron J Weiss, Ye Jia, Zhifeng Chen, and Yonghui
     Wu. LibriTTS: A Corpus Derived from LibriSpeech for Text-to-Speech. Proc. Interspeech
     2019, pages 1526–1530, 2019.
[15] Chenshuang Zhang, Chaoning Zhang, Sheng Zheng, Mengchun Zhang, Maryam Qamar, Sung-
     Ho Bae, and In So Kweon. A Survey on Audio Diffusion Models: Text To Speech Synthesis
     and Enhancement in Generative AI. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.13336, 2, 2023.
[16] Myeonghun Jeong, Hyeongju Kim, Sung Jun Cheon, Byoung Jin Choi, and Nam Soo Kim.
     Diff-TTS: A Denoising Diffusion Model for Text-to-Speech. In Interspeech, 2021.
[17] Vadim Popov, Ivan Vovk, Vladimir Gogoryan, Tasnima Sadekova, and Mikhail Kudinov. Grad-
     TTS: A Diffusion Probabilistic Model for Text-to-Speech. In International Conference on
     Machine Learning, pages 8599–8608. PMLR, 2021.
[18] Rongjie Huang, Zhou Zhao, Huadai Liu, Jinglin Liu, Chenye Cui, and Yi Ren. ProDiff:
     Progressive Fast Diffusion Model for High-Quality Text-to-Speech. In Proceedings of the 30th
     ACM International Conference on Multimedia, pages 2595–2605, 2022.
[19] Songxiang Liu, Dan Su, and Dong Yu. DiffGAN-TTS: High-Fidelity and Efficient Text-to-
     Speech with Denoising Diffusion GANs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.11972, 2022.
[20] Dongchao Yang, Jianwei Yu, Helin Wang, Wen Wang, Chao Weng, Yuexian Zou, and Dong Yu.
     Diffsound: Discrete Diffusion Model for Text-to-Sound Generation. IEEE/ACM Transactions
     on Audio, Speech, and Language Processing, 2023.


                                               11
[21] Nanxin Chen, Yu Zhang, Heiga Zen, Ron J Weiss, Mohammad Norouzi, and William Chan.
     WaveGrad: Estimating Gradients for Waveform Generation. In International Conference on
     Learning Representations.
[22] Zhifeng Kong, Wei Ping, Jiaji Huang, Kexin Zhao, and Bryan Catanzaro. DiffWave: A Versatile
     Diffusion Model for Audio Synthesis. ArXiv, abs/2009.09761, 2020.
[23] Sang-gil Lee, Heeseung Kim, Chaehun Shin, Xu Tan, Chang Liu, Qi Meng, Tao Qin, Wei Chen,
     Sungroh Yoon, and Tie-Yan Liu. PriorGrad: Improving Conditional Denoising Diffusion Models
     with Data-Dependent Adaptive Prior. In International Conference on Learning Representations.
[24] Zehua Chen, Xu Tan, Ke Wang, Shifeng Pan, Danilo Mandic, Lei He, and Sheng Zhao. Infergrad:
     Improving diffusion models for vocoder by considering inference in training. In ICASSP 2022-
     2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP),
     pages 8432–8436. IEEE, 2022.
[25] Yuma Koizumi, Heiga Zen, Kohei Yatabe, Nanxin Chen, and Michiel Bacchiani. SpecGrad:
     Diffusion Probabilistic Model based Neural Vocoder with Adaptive Noise Spectral Shaping. In
     Interspeech, 2022.
[26] Yuma Koizumi, Kohei Yatabe, Heiga Zen, and Michiel Bacchiani. WaveFit: An Iterative and
     Non-autoregressive Neural Vocoder based on Fixed-Point Iteration. In 2022 IEEE Spoken
     Language Technology Workshop (SLT), pages 884–891. IEEE, 2023.
[27] Nanxin Chen, Yu Zhang, Heiga Zen, Ron J Weiss, Mohammad Norouzi, Najim Dehak, and
     William Chan. Wavegrad 2: Iterative refinement for text-to-speech synthesis. In Proceedings of
     Interspeech, pages 3765–3769, 2021.
[28] Rongjie Huang, Max W. Y. Lam, J. Wang, Dan Su, Dong Yu, Yi Ren, and Zhou Zhao. FastDiff:
     A Fast Conditional Diffusion Model for High-Quality Speech Synthesis. In International Joint
     Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2022.
[29] Kai Shen, Zeqian Ju, Xu Tan, Yanqing Liu, Yichong Leng, Lei He, Tao Qin, Sheng Zhao, and
     Jiang Bian. NaturalSpeech 2: Latent Diffusion Models are Natural and Zero-Shot Speech and
     Singing Synthesizers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.09116, 2023.
[30] Jungil Kong, Jaehyeon Kim, and Jaekyoung Bae. HiFi-GAN: Generative Adversarial Networks
     for Efficient and High Fidelity Speech Synthesis. Advances in Neural Information Processing
     Systems, 33:17022–17033, 2020.
[31] Sang-gil Lee, Wei Ping, Boris Ginsburg, Bryan Catanzaro, and Sungroh Yoon. BigVGAN: A
     Universal Neural Vocoder with Large-Scale Training. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.04658, 2022.
[32] Dan Lim, Sunghee Jung, and Eesung Kim. JETS: Jointly training FastSpeech2 and HiFi-GAN
     for end to end text to speech. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.16852, 2022.
[33] Matthew Baas and Herman Kamper. GAN You Hear Me? Reclaiming Unconditional Speech
     Synthesis from Diffusion Models. In 2022 IEEE Spoken Language Technology Workshop (SLT),
     pages 906–911. IEEE, 2023.
[34] Chenpeng Du, Yiwei Guo, Xie Chen, and Kai Yu. VQTTS: High-Fidelity Text-to-Speech
     Synthesis with Self-Supervised VQ Acoustic Feature. arXiv preprint arXiv:2204.00768, 2022.
[35] Hubert Siuzdak, Piotr Dura, Pol van Rijn, and Nori Jacoby. WavThruVec: Latent speech repre-
     sentation as intermediate features for neural speech synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.16930,
     2022.
[36] Sang-Hoon Lee, Seung-Bin Kim, Ji-Hyun Lee, Eunwoo Song, Min-Jae Hwang, and Seong-
     Whan Lee. HierSpeech: Bridging the Gap between Text and Speech by Hierarchical Variational
     Inference using Self-supervised Representations for Speech Synthesis. Advances in Neural
     Information Processing Systems, 35:16624–16636, 2022.
[37] Jinlong Xue, Yayue Deng, Fengping Wang, Ya Li, Yingming Gao, Jianhua Tao, Jianqing Sun,
     and Jiaen Liang. M2-CTTS: End-to-End Multi-scale Multi-modal Conversational Text-to-
     Speech Synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.02269, 2023.
[38] Ruiqing Xue, Yanqing Liu, Lei He, Xu Tan, Linquan Liu, Edward Lin, and Sheng Zhao.
     FoundationTTS: Text-to-Speech for ASR Custmization with Generative Language Model.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.02939, 2023.


                                                 12
[39] Kenichi Fujita, Takanori Ashihara, Hiroki Kanagawa, Takafumi Moriya, and Yusuke Ijima.
     Zero-shot text-to-speech synthesis conditioned using self-supervised speech representation
     model. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.11976, 2023.
[40] Guangyan Zhang, Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Daxin Tan, Yuzi Yan, Yanqing Liu, G. Wang, Wei
     Zhou, Tao Qin, Tan Lee, and Sheng Zhao. Mixed-Phoneme BERT: Improving BERT with
     Mixed Phoneme and Sup-Phoneme Representations for Text to Speech. In Interspeech, 2022.
[41] Jeff Donahue, Sander Dieleman, Mikołaj Bińkowski, Erich Elsen, and Karen Simonyan. End-
     to-End Adversarial Text-to-Speech. arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.03575, 2020.
[42] Isaac Elias, Heiga Zen, Jonathan Shen, Yu Zhang, Jia Ye, R. J. Skerry-Ryan, and Yonghui Wu.
     Parallel Tacotron 2: A Non-Autoregressive Neural TTS Model with Differentiable Duration
     Modeling. In Interspeech, 2021.
[43] Cheng-Han Chiang, Wei-Ping Huang, and Hung-yi Lee. Why we should report the details in
     subjective evaluation of tts more rigorously. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.02044, 2023.
[44] Xun Huang and Serge Belongie. Arbitrary style transfer in real-time with adaptive instance
     normalization. In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision, pages
     1501–1510, 2017.
[45] Takuhiro Kaneko, Kou Tanaka, Hirokazu Kameoka, and Shogo Seki. iSTFTNet: Fast and
     lightweight mel-spectrogram vocoder incorporating inverse short-time Fourier transform. In
     ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
     (ICASSP), pages 6207–6211. IEEE, 2022.
[46] Liu Ziyin, Tilman Hartwig, and Masahito Ueda. Neural networks fail to learn periodic functions
     and how to fix it. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33:1583–1594, 2020.
[47] Won Jang, Daniel Chung Yong Lim, Jaesam Yoon, Bongwan Kim, and Juntae Kim. UnivNet: A
     Neural Vocoder with Multi-Resolution Spectrogram Discriminators for High-Fidelity Waveform
     Generation. In Interspeech, 2021.
[48] Xudong Mao, Qing Li, Haoran Xie, Raymond YK Lau, Zhen Wang, and Stephen Paul Smolley.
     Least squares generative adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE international
     conference on computer vision, pages 2794–2802, 2017.
[49] Yanli Li and Congyi Wang. Improve gan-based neural vocoder using truncated pointwise
     relativistic least square gan. In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Advanced
     Information Science and System, pages 1–7, 2022.
[50] Tero Karras, Miika Aittala, Timo Aila, and Samuli Laine. Elucidating the design space of
     diffusion-based generative models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2206.00364, 2022.
[51] Chin-Wei Huang, Jae Hyun Lim, and Aaron C Courville. A variational perspective on diffusion-
     based generative models and score matching. Advances in Neural Information Processing
     Systems, 34:22863–22876, 2021.
[52] Yang Song, Jascha Sohl-Dickstein, Diederik P Kingma, Abhishek Kumar, Stefano Ermon, and
     Ben Poole. Score-based generative modeling through stochastic differential equations. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2011.13456, 2020.
[53] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N Gomez,
     Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need. Advances in neural information
     processing systems, 30, 2017.
[54] Cheng Lu, Yuhao Zhou, Fan Bao, Jianfei Chen, Chongxuan Li, and Jun Zhu. DPM-Solver:
     A Fast ODE Solver for Diffusion Probabilistic Model Sampling in Around 10 Steps. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2206.00927, 2022.
[55] Ankita Pasad, Ju-Chieh Chou, and Karen Livescu. Layer-wise analysis of a self-supervised
     speech representation model. In 2021 IEEE Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding
     Workshop (ASRU), pages 914–921. IEEE, 2021.
[56] Axel Sauer, Kashyap Chitta, Jens Müller, and Andreas Geiger. Projected GANs Converge
     Faster. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:17480–17492, 2021.
[57] Jonathan Shen, Ye Jia, Mike Chrzanowski, Yu Zhang, Isaac Elias, Heiga Zen, and Yonghui Wu.
     Non-Attentive Tacotron: Robust and Controllable Neural TTS Synthesis Including Unsupervised
     Duration Modeling. arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.04301, 2020.


                                                13
[58] Mathieu Bernard and Hadrien Titeux. Phonemizer: Text to Phones Transcription for Multiple
     Languages in Python. Journal of Open Source Software, 6(68):3958, 2021.
[59] Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. Fixing Weight Decay Regularization in Adam, 2018.
[60] Edresson Casanova, Julian Weber, Christopher D Shulby, Arnaldo Candido Junior, Eren Gölge,
     and Moacir A Ponti. YourTTS: Towards Zero-Shot Multi-Speaker TTS and Zero-Shot Voice
     Conversion for everyone. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 2709–2720.
     PMLR, 2022.
[61] Yinghao Aaron Li, Ali Zare, and Nima Mesgarani. StarGANv2-VC: A Diverse, Unsu-
     pervised, Non-parallel Framework for Natural-Sounding Voice Conversion. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2107.10394, 2021.
[62] Yinghao Aaron Li, Cong Han, and Nima Mesgarani. Styletts-vc: One-shot voice conversion by
     knowledge transfer from style-based tts models. In 2022 IEEE Spoken Language Technology
     Workshop (SLT), pages 920–927. IEEE, 2023.
[63] Shinji Watanabe, Takaaki Hori, Shigeki Karita, Tomoki Hayashi, Jiro Nishitoba, Yuya Unno,
     Nelson Enrique Yalta Soplin, Jahn Heymann, Matthew Wiesner, Nanxin Chen, Adithya Ren-
     duchintala, and Tsubasa Ochiai. ESPnet: End-to-end speech processing toolkit. In Proceedings
     of Interspeech, pages 2207–2211, 2018.
[64] Yiheng Liu, Tianle Han, Siyuan Ma, Jiayue Zhang, Yuanyuan Yang, Jiaming Tian, Hao He,
     Antong Li, Mengshen He, Zhengliang Liu, et al. Summary of ChatGPT/GPT-4 Research and
     Perspective Towards the Future of Large Language Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.01852,
     2023.




                                               14
Appendix A         Additional Evaluation Results
A.1   Feedback Analysis from Survey Participants

On the last page of our survey, we encouraged the raters to provide their feedback on the study. While
the majority opted not to comment, those who did provided valuable insights into our survey design
and results interpretation. The main point of feedback revolved around the difficulty in discerning
differences between different samples, specifically for the LJSpeech CMOS experiments. Below are
a few representative comments from our CMOS experiment participants:

       • Sounds great. At most points the differences were negligible.
       • I really liked the person who was reading the clips.
         She sounds professional and was very good at changing her tone
         of voice. Sometimes it was hard to evaluate the clip because you
         had to listen carefully when they sounded similar.
         I didn’t have any problems. I enjoyed participating Thank you!
       • For most of the rounds, it was difficult to notice a difference
         between the voices.
       • Interested to see the results - differences were sometimes
         noticeable, often subtle

This feedback strengthens our conclusion that StyleTTS 2 has reached human-like text-to-speech
synthesis quality. Several participants offered specific observations regarding the differences:

       • Some sounded a little unnatural because they sounded like an actor
         auditioning for a role - a little too dramatic.
       • So, a couple of comments. I feel like the expressiveness of the
         speaker made me think it was more natural, but hyper expressiveness
         would be unnatural in certain contexts (and did feel odd with some of
         them but it felt more real). Additionally, the different voices, in
         being expressive, sometimes tended to turn into different emotions
         and contextual these emotions sometimes felt unnatural but felt real
         at the same time.
         Fun study though. I wish you all well!
       • some sound relatively unexpected/unnatural, but most often it was
         just a minor difference

These comments suggest that the differences between StyleTTS 2 and the original audio mainly lie in
subtle nuances like intonation and word emphasis.
Our results indicate that StyleTTS 2 scored statistically higher than the original audio in both MOS
and CMOS, likely due to the absence of contextual continuity in the common evaluation procedure
used in TTS studies. This disruption of narrative continuity in the LJSpeech dataset, which consists of
isolated audiobook clips, might have led to the perceived unnaturalness of the ground truth compared
to samples generated by StyleTTS 2. Future research should aim to incorporate context-aware
long-form generation into human-like text-to-speech synthesis to improve evaluation fairness and
relevance.

A.2   Speech Expressiveness

Our model’s ability to synthesize diverse and expressive speech is demonstrated by synthesizing
speech from 500 text samples across five emotions generated using GPT-4. This reinforces the results
visualized in Figure 2, which maps style vectors from texts associated with different emotions using
t-SNE. We use the mean value of the F0 and energy curves to evaluate emotive speech.
As depicted in Figure 3 (a), speech synthesized by our model exhibits visible F0 and energy charac-
teristics for each emotion, notably for anger and surprise texts, which deviate from the ground truth
average. This substantiates our model’s capacity to generate emotive speech from texts associated
with specific emotions. Conversely, VITS shows certain degrees of insensitivity to emotional variance,


                                                  15
                                             (a) StyleTTS2




                                               (b) VITS




                                               (c) JETS

Figure 3: Histograms and kernel density estimation of the mean F0 and energy values of speech,
synthesized with texts in five different emotions. The blue color ("Ground Truth") denotes the
distributions of the ground truth samples in the test set. StyleTTS 2 shows distinct distributions for
different emotions and produces samples that cover the entire range of the ground truth distributions.

as displayed in Figure 3 (b). JETS, shown in Figure 3 (c), fails to span the full distribution of F0 and
energy, producing samples clustered around the mode. In contrast, our model extends across both F0
and energy distributions, approximating the range of the ground truth.
Since both StyleTTS 2 and VITS are probabilistic while JETS is deterministic, this shows that
probabilistic models generate more expressive speech compared to deterministic ones. Moreover,
our model demonstrates slightly better mode coverage compared to VITS at the right tail of the
energy mean distribution, likely because we use diffusion-based models as opposed to the variational
autoencoder used in VITS.
For audio samples of the synthesized speech and their corresponding emotional text, please refer to
our demonstration page at https://styletts2.github.io/#emo.

A.3     Ablation Study

The ablation study results, presented in Table 6, illustrate the importance of each component in
our proposed model using several measures: mel-cepstral distortion (MCD), MCD weighted by
Speech Length (SL) that evaluates both the length and the quality of alignment between two speeches
(MCD-SL), root mean square error of log F0 pitch (F0 RMSE), mean absolute deviation of phoneme
duration (DUR MAD), and word error rate (WER), following [36]. The MCD and F0 RMSE were
computed between the samples generated by each model and the ground truth aligned with dynamic
time warping. The MCD-SL was computed using a publicly available library 3 . The WER was
computed with a pre-trained ASR model 4 from ESPNet [63].
Most notably, using randomly encoded style vectors instead of those sampled through style diffusion
considerably affects all metrics, including the subjective CMOS score, thereby underscoring its
   3
       https://github.com/chenqi008/pymcd
   4
       Available at https://zenodo.org/record/4541452


                                                  16
Table 6: Comparison of models in ablation study with mel-cepstral distortion (MCD), MCD weighted
by Speech Length (MCD-SL), root mean square error of log F0 pitch (F0 RMSE), mean absolute
deviation of phoneme duration (DUR MAD), and word error rate (WER) on LJSpeech. The CMOS
results are copied directly from Table 5 as a reference.

 Model                             MCD      MCD-SL       F0 RMSE       DUR MAD         WER     CMOS
 Proposed model                    4.93       5.34         0.651          0.521       6.50%       0
 w/o style diffusion               8.30       9.33         0.899          0.634       8.77%     −0.46
 w/o SLM adversarial training      4.95       5.40         0.692          0.513       6.52%     −0.32
 w/o prosodic style encoder        5.04       5.42         0.663          0.543       6.92%     −0.35
 w/o differentiable upsampler      4.94       5.34         0.880          0.525       6.54%     −0.21
 w/o OOD texts                     4.93       5.45         0.690          0.516       6.58%     −0.15


significance. Since [6] establishes that the style vectors crucially influence all aspects of the speech,
such as pauses, emotions, speaking rates, and sound quality, style diffusion is the most important
factor in producing speech close to the ground truth and natural human speech.
Excluding adversarial training with large speech language models (SLMs) results in a slight decline
in MCD-SL and F0 RMSE but does not impact WER. Interestingly, this version produces the lowest
duration error, implying that SLM discriminators may cause minor underfitting on in-distribution
texts, which can also be observed in models trained without OOD texts during SLM adversarial
training. Nonetheless, subjective evaluations reveal a significant difference for out-of-distribution
(OOD) texts for models trained without SLM discriminators (see Appendix D for more discussions).
Training without the differentiable upsampler increases the F0 RMSE, but leaves the MCD, MCD-SL,
DUR MAD, and WER unaffected. The removal of the prosodic style encoder affects all metric scores,
thus underscoring its effectiveness in our model. Lastly, training without OOD texts only affects the
F0 RMSE in our objective evaluation.
Further details, discussions, and audio samples regarding these model variations can be found in
Section 8 of our demo page: https://styletts2.github.io/#ab.


Appendix B         Style Diffusion

B.1   EDM Formulation

EDM [50] formulates the sampling procedure of diffusion-based generative model as an ordinary
differential equation (ODE) (Eq. 1 in [50]):

                                dx = −σ̇(t)σ(t)∇x log p(x; σ(t)) dt,                                (12)
where the noise level schedule and its derivative are represented by σ(t) and σ̇(t), respectively. The
score function of p(x) is ∇x log p(x; σ(t)), and p(x) is the targeted data distribution (please refer to
Appendix B in [50] for a detailed derivation). The equation can be rewritten in terms of dσ as:

                                     dx = −σ∇x log p(x; σ) dσ.                                      (13)
The denoising score matching objective is defined as follows (Eq. 108 in [50]):
                                                              h                        i
                                                                                     2
                 Ey∼pdata ,ξ∼N (0,σ2 I),ln σ∼N (Pmean ,Pstd2 ) λ(σ) ∥D(y + ξ; σ) − y∥2 .            (14)
Here, y denotes the training sample from data distribution pdata , ξ is the noise, and D is the denoiser,
defined as (Eq. 7 in [50]):

                       D(x; σ) := cskip (σ)x + cout (σ)Fθ (cin (σ)x; cnoise (σ)).                   (15)
In the above equation, Fθ represents the trainable neural network, cskip (σ) modulates the skip
connection, cin (σ) and cout (σ) regulate input and output magnitudes respectively, and cnoise (σ) maps


                                                   17
noise level σ into a conditioning input for Fθ . With this formulation, the score function is given by
(Eq. 3 in [50]):

                               ∇x log p(x; σ(t)) = (D(x; σ) − x) /σ 2 .                              (16)
In Table 1 of [50], the authors define the scaling factors as follows:

                                           2        2  2                 ∗ 2
                             cskip (σ) := σdata /(σ
                                                  q + σdata ) = (σdata /σ ) ,                        (17)
                                                 2 + σ2 = σ · σ         ∗
                     cout (σ) := σ · σdata / σdata               data /σ ,                           (18)
                                             q
                             cin (σ) := 1/ σdata 2 + σ 2 = 1/σ ∗ ,                                   (19)
                                                   1
                                     cnoise (σ) := ln(σ),                                            (20)
            p                                      4
where σ ∗ := σdata
              2 + σ 2 , a shorthand notation for simplicity.

Inserting equations 17, 18, 19 and 20 into equation 15 yields:

                        D(x; σ) = cskip (σ)x + cout (σ)Fθ (cin (σ)x; cnoise (σ))
                                                                               
                                   σ 2
                                      data       σ · σdata          x 1                              (21)
                                =            x +           · F  θ     ;    ln σ   ,
                                     σ∗              σ∗             σ∗ 4
Combining equation 13 and 16, we obtain

                                  dx
                                       = −σ∇x log p(x; σ(t))
                                  dσ
                                       = −σ (D(x; σ) − x) /σ 2                              (22)
                                         x − D(x; σ)
                                       =              .
                                              σ
Equations 2 and 4 can be recovered by replacing x with s, p(x) with p(s|t), Fθ with V and D with
K in equations 21 and 22 respectively.
In EDM, the time step {σ0 , σ1 , . . ., σN −1 } for the total step N is defined  as (Eq. 5 in [50]):
                                             1        i          1        1
                                                                              ρ
                        σi<N := σmax ρ +                     σmin ρ − σmax ρ      ,                   (23)
                                                   N −1
where σmax = σ0 , σmin = σN −1 , and ρ is the factor that shortens the step lengths near σmin at the
expense of longer steps near σmax . Optimal performance is observed in [50] when σmax ≫ σdata
and ρ ∈ [5, 10]. Through empirical tests, we set σmin = 0.0001, σmax = 3 and ρ = 9 in our work,
allowing fast sampling with small step sizes while producing high-quality speech samples.

B.2   Effects of Diffusion Steps

Table 7: Comparision of mel-cepstral distortion (MCD), MCD weighted by Speech Length
(MCD-SL), root mean square error of log F0 pitch (F0 RMSE), word error rate (WER), real-time
factor (RTF), coefficient of variation of duration (CVdur ), and coefficient of variation of pitch (CVf0 )
between different diffusion steps.

       Step    MCD ↓      MCD-SL ↓        F0 RMSE ↓       WER ↓       RTF ↓     CVdur ↑    CVf0 ↑
       4         4.90         5.34           0.650        6.72%      0.0179     0.0207     0.5473
       8         4.93         5.33           0.674        6.53%      0.0202     0.0466     0.7073
       16        4.92         5.34           0.665        6.44%      0.0252     0.0505     0.7244
       32        4.92         5.32           0.663        6.56%      0.0355     0.0463     0.7345
       64        4.91         5.34           0.654        6.67%      0.0557     0.0447     0.7245
       128       4.92         5.33           0.656        6.73%      0.0963     0.0447     0.7256

The impact of diffusion steps on sample quality, speed, and diversity was studied using multiple
indicators. We assessed the sample quality using mel-cepstral distortion (MCD), MCD weighted by


                                                     18
Speech Length (MCD-SL), root mean square error of log F0 pitch (F0 RMSE), and word error rate
(WER). We also examined the influence of diffusion steps on computational speed using the real-time
factor (RTF), which was computed on a single Nvidia RTX 2080 Ti GPU. Given the application of
the ancestral solver, which introduces noise at each integration step [52], it was postulated that a
higher number of steps would lead to more diverse samples. This hypothesis was tested using the
coefficient of variation on the F0 curve (CVf0 ) and duration (CVdur ).
The model was run with diffusion steps ranging from 4 to 128, as results with only two steps
were disregarded due to the characteristics of the noise scheduler in EDM. Here, σ0 = σmax and
σN −1 = σmin , and therefore, with merely two diffusion steps, the attainment of samples of acceptable
quality is not feasible.
The results presented in Table 7 reveal negligible disparities in sample quality across varying diffusion
steps, with satisfactory quality samples being producible with as few as three steps in our experiments.
Consequently, we decided to randomly sample styles with diffusion steps ranging from 3 to 5 during
training in order to save time and GPU RAM. Furthermore, we observed an incremental rise in speech
diversity relative to the number of diffusion steps, reaching a plateau around 16 steps. Thereafter, the
increase is marginal, with a slight decrease in diversity noticed when the steps are large, potentially
attributable to the refining of the noise schedule with higher step counts. This could cause the
ancestral solver to converge to a fixed set of solutions despite the noise introduced at each step.
Notably, optimal results in terms of sample quality and diversity, paired with acceptable computational
speed, were achieved with around 16 diffusion steps. Even though the RTF experienced a 30%
increase compared to 4 steps, it still outperformed VITS by twice the speed, making it a suitable
choice for real-time applications.


B.3   Consistent Long-Form Generation



Algorithm 1 Long-form generation with style diffusion
  procedure L ONGFORM(t, α)              ▷ t is the input paragraph, α ∈ [0, 1] is the weighting factor
     T ← S PLIT(t)                                    ▷ Split t into N sentences {T0 , T1 , . . . , TN −1 }
     for i ∈ {0, . . . , N − 1} do
         scurr ← S TYLE D IFFUSION(Ti )               ▷ Sample a style vector with the current text Ti
         if sprev then                                  ▷ Check if the previous style vector is defined
             scurr ← αscurr + (1 − α)sprev                        ▷ Convex combination interpolation
         end if
         xi ← S YNTHESIZE(Ti , scurr )                         ▷ Synthesize with the interpolated scurr
         sprev ← scurr                                                 ▷ Set sprev for the next iteration
     end for
     return C ONCAT({x0 , x1 , . . . , xN −1 })      ▷ Return concatenated speech from all sentences
  end procedure


Our findings indicate that style diffusion creates significant variation in samples, a characteristic that
poses challenges for long-form synthesis. In this scenario, a long paragraph is usually divided into
smaller sentences for generation, sentence by sentence, in the same way as real-time applications.
Using an independent style for each sentence may generate speech that appears inconsistent due
to differences in speaking styles. Conversely, maintaining the same style from the first sentence
throughout the entire paragraph results in monotonic, unnatural, and robotic-sounding speech.
We empirically observe that the latent space underlying the style vectors generally forms a convex
space. Consequently, a convex combination of two style vectors yields another style vector, with
the speaking style somewhere between the original two. This allows us to condition the style of the
current sentence on the previous sentence through a simple convex combination. The pseudocode of
this algorithm, which uses interpolated style vectors, is provided in Algorithm 1.
An example of a long paragraph generated using this method with α = 0.7 is available on our demo
page: https://styletts2.github.io/#long.


                                                    19
Token                                                                                      Token                                          Token




             Duration                        0   1   2    3   4   5   6   7   8   9                1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9              1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9
                                                         Speech Frame                                       Speech Frame                                  Speech Frame

         (a) Duration predictor output   (b) Gaussian filter centered at                    (c) Unnormalized predicted alignment             (d) Normalized predicted alignment


Figure 4: Illustration of our proposed differentiable duration upsampler. (a) Probability output from
the duration predictor for 5 input tokens with L = 5 . (b) Gaussian filter Nℓi−1 centered at ℓi−1 . (c)
Unnormalized predicted alignment f˜ai [n] from the convolution operation between (a) and (b). (d)
Normalized predicted alignment apred over the phoneme axis.


B.4        Style Transfer

Our model, contrary to traditional end-to-end (E2E) TTS systems that directly map texts to speech-
related representations, decouples speech content and style via a style vector. This setup enables
the transfer of a style sourced from a text with specific emotions or stylistic nuances to any given
input text. The procedure involves generating a style vector from a text reflecting desired aspects
of the target style (e.g., emotions, speaking rates, recording environments, etc.) and synthesizing
speech from any input text using this style vector. This process also extends to unseen speakers, as
demonstrated on our demo page at https://styletts2.github.io/#libri. It is important to
note that the relationship between speech style and input text is learned in a self-supervised manner
without manual labeling, analogous to the CLIP embedding used in Stable Diffusion.


Appendix C                       Differentiable Duration Modeling

C.1        DSP-Based Formulation

In section 3.2.4, we formulated the differentiable duration model using probability theory. This
section provides an alternative formulation based on principles of digital signal processing (DSP).
The upsampler is formulated using the following DSP properties:
                                                                                                                                       1
                  x[n] ∗ δk [n] = x[n + k],                               (24)                             δc (x) = lim                √ Nc (x; σ).                               (25)
                                                                                                                           σ→0 σ        2π
Here, δk [n] is the Kronecker delta function, δc (x) is the Dirac delta function, and Nc (x; σ) is the
Gaussian kernel centered at c, as defined in eq. 7. These properties state that a delta function, δk ,
through convolution operation, shifts the value of a function to a new position by k, and a properly
normalized Gaussian kernel converges to the delta function as σ → 0. Therefore, by properly
selecting σ, we can approximate the shifting property of the delta function with Nc (x; σ) and adjust
the duration predictor output q[:, i] to the starting position ℓi−1 of the ith phoneme. Figure 4 illustrates
our proposed differentiable duration modeling, and a real example of the duration predictor output,
the predicted alignment using the non-differentiable upsampling method described in section 3.1, and
the alignment using our proposed method is given in Figure 5.




        (a) Predictor output.            (b) Non-differentiable upsampling.                                        (c) Proposed upsampling with σ = 1.5.

Figure 5: An example of duration predictor output and the predicted alignment with and without
differentiable duration upsampler. (a) displays the log probability from the duration predictor for
improved visualization. Although (b) and (c) differs, the duration predictor is trained end-to-end with
the SLM discriminator, making the difference perceptually indistinguishable in synthesized speech.


                                                                                      20
C.2   Effects of σ on Training Stability and Sample Quality

The gradient propagation from the SLM discriminator to the duration predictor is crucial for our
model’s performance. The norm of this gradient, computed using the chain rule, is the product of the
norms of individual functions’ gradients. The magnitude of the partial derivatives of Nc (x; σ) is:

          ∂Nc (x; σ)   ∂Nc (x; σ)     (x − c)             |x − c|               C
                     =            = ±         Nc (x; σ) =         |Nc (x; σ)| ≤ 2 ,                 (26)
            ∂x            ∂c            σ2                  σ2                 σ
where C is a constant dependent on L. The gradient norm is thus of order O(1/σ k ), where k depends
on the input dimension. As σ → 0, Nc (x; σ) approaches δc (x), but the gradient norm ∥∇Nc (x; σ)∥
goes to infinity. Moreover, smaller σ values may not yield better δ approximations due to numerical
instability, particularly when dealing with small values such as the predictor output q ∈ [0, 1], which
is multiplied by Nc (x; σ) in eq. 11, exacerbating numerical instability.
We investigate the trade-off by examining the impact of σ on training stability and sample quality.
Training stability is represented by the gradient norm from the SLM discriminator to the duration
predictor, and sample quality is measured by the mel cepstral distortion (MCD) between speech
synthesized using the predicted alignment generated through the non-differentiable upsampling
method (section 3.1) and our proposed differentiable upsampling method. We use the maximum
gradient over an epoch to represent training stability, as large gradient batches often cause gradient
explosion and unstable training. We compute these statistics for σ values from 0.01 to 10.0 on a log
scale, with results shown in Figure 6.




               (a) Sample quality (MCD)                (b) Training stability (max gradient norm)

Figure 6: Effects of σ on MCD and max gradient norm. Our choice of σ = 1.5 is marked with
a star symbol. (a) MCD between samples synthesized with differentiable and non-differentiable
upsampling over different σ. (b) The maximum norm of gradients from the SLM discriminator to the
duration predictor over an epoch of training with different σ.

Our chosen σ = 1.5 minimizes both MCD and gradient norm across a wide range of σ values, making
it an optimal choice for upsampling. This value also aligns with the typical phoneme duration of 2 to
3 speech frames, as Gaussian kernels with σ = 1.5 span approximately 3 speech frames.

Appendix D         SLM Discriminators
D.1   Layer-Wise Analysis

Following the approach of the WavLM study [11], we performed a layer-wise feature importance
analysis for the speech language model (SLM) discriminator. The weights of the input linear
projection layer into the convolutional discriminative head were normalized using the average norm
values of WavLM features for samples in the test set across LJSpeech, VCTK, and LibriTTS datasets.
Figure 7 depicts the normalized weight magnitudes across layers.
In the LJSpeech and LibriTTS models, the initial (1 and 2) and middle layers (6 and 7) showed
the highest importance, while the final layers (10 and 11) were of diminishing importance. The
least influential was the final layer, consistent with previous findings that ascribe the primary role
of this layer to pretext tasks over downstream tasks [55, 10, 11]. Notably, layers 0, 1, and 2, which
encode acoustic information like energy, pitch, and signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), emerged as the most


                                                  21
                                             (a) LJSpeech




                                               (b) VCTK




                                             (c) LibriTTS

Figure 7: Layer-wise input weight magnitude to the SLM discriminators across different datasets.
The layer importance shows a divergent pattern for the VCTK model relative to the LJSpeech and
LibriTTS models, showcasing the impact of contextual absence on the SLM discriminators.


crucial. Layers 5, 6, and 7, encoding semantic aspects like word identity and meaning [55], held
secondary importance. This indicates that the SLM discriminator learns to fuse acoustic and semantic
information to derive paralinguistic attributes, such as prosody, pauses, intonations, and emotions,
which are critical in distinguishing real and synthesized speech. The outcome reaffirms the SLM
discriminator’s capacity to enhance the emotional expressiveness and prosody of synthesized speech.
In contrast, the SLM discriminator for the VCTK dataset demonstrated no distinct layer preference,
likely due to its limited contextual information. Unlike the storytelling and audiobook narrations in
the LJSpeech and LibriTTS datasets, the VCTK dataset only involves reading a standard paragraph
devoid of specific context or emotions. This context shortage could explain the marginal performance
increase of our model over VITS on the VCTK dataset compared to LJSpeech and LibriTTS datasets
(see Tables 1, 2, 3), as the advantages of style diffusion and SLM adversarial training in our model
are less pronounced in datasets with restricted expressiveness and emotional variety.


D.2   Training Stability

Figure 6(b) shows that the maximum norm gradient from the SLM discriminator to the duration
predictor can reach up to 200 even with σ = 1.5, potentially destabilizing training, given that the
gradient norms for other modules are generally less than 10. This instability is particularly concerning
when the gradient is back-propagated to the prosodic text encoder, which employs a BERT model
that is notably sensitive to gradient explosion. To mitigate this issue, we adopt a strategy for scaling
the gradient from the SLM discriminator to the duration predictor, a common practice to prevent
gradient explosion in GAN training [31].


                                                  22
We found that the gradient norm of the entire predictor typically falls between 10 and 20. As such,
we implement a scaling factor of 0.2 to the gradient norm when it surpasses 20. Additionally, we also
account for potential instabilities arising from the sigmoid function used by the duration predictor for
probability output. We mitigate these by scaling the gradient to the last projection layer and the LSTM
layer within the duration predictor by a factor of 0.01. These scaling values have consistently shown
stability across different datasets and can be modified to accommodate dataset-specific attributes. All
the models presented in this paper were trained with these scaling factors.

Appendix E          Subjective Evaluation Procedures
In this section, we propose a detailed and standardized evaluation procedure and elucidate our
adherence to these guidelines in the current work.

E.1     Proposed Framework for Subjective Evaluation

In light of the findings in [43] along with guidelines from [5], we recommend the following procedures
for assessing human-like text-to-speech models:

        1. Raters should be native speakers of the language used in the model’s training corpus, with
           provisions in place to exclude falsely claimed native speakers.
        2. Attention checks should be incorporated into the evaluation to ensure thoughtful, careful
           completion, and raters who do not pass the attention checks should be excluded from the
           outcome analysis.
        3. The objectives of the evaluation should be clearly stated. For instance, when assessing
           naturalness, its definition should be explicit within the evaluation framework.
        4. Ideally, all models used in the experiments should be publicly available, and official imple-
           mentations are preferred over unofficial implementations. If no official implementations are
           publicly available, the testing samples can be requested from the authors of the papers, or
           from implementations that have been employed in other papers.
        5. For model comparisons, the MUSHRA-based approach, where paired samples from all
           models are presented, should be employed, in contrast to the traditional MOS evaluation
           scheme that presents model samples in isolation.
        6. For nuanced model comparison and determining statistical significance, CMOS should be
           used in place of the MOS and MUSHRA evaluations. Each sample should be rated by
           at least 20 raters with more than 50 samples to claim statistical significance compared to
           ground truth to assess human-level quality [5].

E.2     Evaluation Details

The first criterion was ensured by selecting native English-speaking participants residing in the United
States. Upon launching our survey on MTurk, we activated the following filters:

         • HIT Approval Rate (%) for all Requesters’ HITS: greater than 95.
         • Location: is UNITED STATES (US).
         • Number of HITs Approved: greater than 50.

For each batch, completed responses were collected exclusively from self-identified native speakers
in the United States, verified by residential IP addresses (i.e., not proxy or VPN) with an online
service 5 .
To fulfill the second criterion, attention checks were implemented differently for MOS and CMOS
evaluations. In the MOS assessment, we utilized the average score given by a participant to ground
truth audios, unbeknownst to the participants, to ascertain their attentiveness. We excluded ratings
from those whose average score for the ground truth did not rank in the top three among all five
models. In the CMOS evaluation, we assessed the consistency of the rater’s scoring; if the score’s
   5
       Avaiable at https://www.ipqualityscore.com/free-ip-lookup-proxy-vpn-test


                                                   23
sign (indicating whether A was better or worse than B) differed for over half the sample set (in our
case, 10 samples), the rater was disqualified. Six raters were eliminated through this process in all of
our experiments.
The third criterion was ensured by providing explicit definitions of “naturalness" and “similarity"
within our surveys, exemplified by the following lines (see our survey links 678 for more detail):
       • Naturalness:
         Some of them may be synthesized while others may be spoken by an
         American audiobook narrator.

         Rate how natural each audio clip sounds on a scale of 1 to 5 with
         1 indicating completely unnatural speech (bad) and 5 completely
         natural speech (excellent).

         Here, naturalness includes whether you feel the speech is spoken
         by a native American English speaker from a human source.
       • Similarity:
         Rate whether the two audio clips could have been produced by the
         same speaker or not on a scale of 1 to 5 with 1 indicating
         completely different speakers and 5 indicating exactly the same
         speaker.

         Some samples may sound somewhat degraded/distorted; for this
         question, please try to listen beyond the distortion of the
         speech and concentrate on identifying the voice (including the
         person’s accent and speaking habits, if possible).
In accordance with the fourth criterion, official model checkpoints were utilized in both MOS and
CMOS evaluations. Specifically, for the MOS evaluation of LJSpeech, checkpoints for VITS9 ,
JETS10 , and StyleTTS with HifiGAN vocoder11 were sourced directly from the authors. Likewise,
for the MOS evaluation on LibriTTS, official checkpoints for StyleTTS with the HifiGAN vocoder
and YourTTS (utilizing the Exp 4 checkpoint)12 were used. Since there is no official checkpoint of
VITS for LibriTTS, we used the VITS model from ESPNet 13 on LibriTTS, which was previously
employed as a baseline model in [6]. For the CMOS experiment on VCTK with VITS, we used
official checkpoints and implementation. For the CMOS evaluation with NaturalSpeech, we obtained
20 demo samples directly from the author. Regarding Vall-E’s CMOS experiment, we collected 30
samples from LibriTTS, along with their corresponding 3-second prompts from the official demo
page14 .
Fulfilling the fifth criterion, we employed a MUSHRA-based approach in our MOS evaluations.
Lastly, we assured that 20 raters evaluated each sample in our CMOS experiments, after excluding
ineligible raters. For NaturalSpeech and Vall-E, where additional samples were not available, we
compensated by doubling the number of raters.

Appendix F        Detailed Model Architectures
This section offers a comprehensive outline of the enhanced StyleTTS 2 architecture. The model
integrates eight original StyleTTS modules with the addition of an extra style diffusion denoiser,
prosodic style encoder, and prosodic text encoder.
   6
     LJSpeech MOS: https://survey.alchemer.com/s3/7376864/MOS-MIX-ID-OOD-B1
   7
     LJSpeech CMOS: https://survey.alchemer.com/s3/7332116/CMOS-gt-styletts2-0430-b4
   8
     LibriTTS MOS: https://survey.alchemer.com/s3/7387883/MOS-LibriTTS-0508-b2
   9
     https://github.com/jaywalnut310/vits
  10
     https://huggingface.co/imdanboy/jets
  11
     https://github.com/yl4579/StyleTTS
  12
     https://github.com/Edresson/YourTTS
  13
     Available at https://huggingface.co/espnet/kan-bayashi_libritts_xvector_vits
  14
     https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/vall-e-x/vall-e/


                                                  24
The model keeps the same architecture for the acoustic text encoder, text aligner, and pitch extractor
as in the original StyleTTS [6]. The architecture of both the acoustic style encoder and prosodic
style encoder follows that of the style encoder from StyleTTS [6]. The prosodic text encoder is
a pre-trained PL-BERT15 model [7]. Additionally, we adopt the same discriminators, MPD and
MRD, as specified in [31]. The decoder is a combination of the original decoder from StyleTTS and
either iSTFTNet [45] or HifiGAN [28], with the AdaIN [44] module appended after each activation
function. The duration and prosody predictors follow the same architecture as in [6], albeit with
alterations to the output of the duration predictor changing from 1 × N to L × N for probability
output modeling. Thus, this section focuses primarily on providing comprehensive outlines for the
style diffusion denoiser and the discriminative head of the SLM discriminators. Readers seeking
detailed specifications for other modules can refer to the aforementioned references.
The Denoiser (Table 8) is designed to process an input style vector s, the noise level σ, the phoneme
embeddings from the prosodic text encoder hbert and, when applicable, a speaker embedding c from
the acoustic and prosodic encoders in the multi-speaker scenario. Here, c is also considered a part of
the input and is introduced to the denoiser through adaptive layer normalization (AdaLN):
                                                     x − µ(x)
                             AdaLN(x, s) = Lσ (s)              + Lµ (s)                            (27)
                                                       σ(x)
where x is the feature maps from the output of the previous layer, s is the style vector, µ(·) and σ(·)
denotes the layer mean and standard deviation, and Lσ and Lµ are learned linear projections for
computing the adaptive gain and bias using the style vector s.

Table 8: Denoiser architecture. N represents the input phoneme length of the mel-spectrogram, σ is
the noise level, hbert is the phoneme embeddings, and c is the speaker embedding. The size of s and
c is 256 × 1, that of hbert is 768 × N , and σ is 1 × 1. Group(32) is the group normalization with a
group size of 32.
         Submodule        Input                   Layer                         Norm        Output Shape
                            σ             Sinusoidal Embedding                    -           256 ×1
         Embedding          c                    Addition                         -           256 ×1
                            –               Repeat for N times                    -           256 ×N
                            –               Linear 256 × 1024                     -          1024 ×N
                            –              Output Embedding k                     -          1024 ×N
                            s              Repeat for N Times                     -           256 ×N
            Input         hbert                   Concat                      Group(32)      1024×N
                            –               Conv 1024×1024                        –          1024×N
                            k                    Addition                         -          1024 ×N
 Transformer Block (×3)     c     8-Head Self-Attention (64 head features)   AdaLN (·, c)    1024×N
                            –               Linear 1024×2048                      –          2048×N
                            –                     GELU                            –          2048×N
                            –               Linear 2048×1024                      –          1024×N
                            –             Adaptive Average Pool                   -          1024 ×1
           Output           –               Linear 1024×256                       –            256×1

The Discriminative Head (Table 9) is comprised of a 3-layer convolutional neural network, conclud-
ing with a linear projection.
Table 9: Discriminative head architecture. T represents the number of frames (length) of the output
feature hslm from WavLM.
                                 Layer             Norm      Output Shape
                               Input hslm            -       13×768×T
                                Reshape              -         9984×T
                            Linear 9984×256          -          256×T
                             Conv 256×256            -          256×T
                            Leaky ReLU (0.2)         -          256×T
                             Conv 256×512            -          512×T
                            Leaky ReLU (0.2)         -          512×T
                             Conv 512×512            -          512×T
                            Leaky ReLU (0.2)         -          512×T
                              Conv 512×1             -           1×T
  15
       Available at https://github.com/yl4579/PL-BERT


                                                  25
Appendix G         Detailed Training Objectives

In this section, we provide detailed training objectives for both acoustic modules pre-training and
joint training. We first pre-train the acoustic modules for accelerated training, and we then proceed
with joint training with the pitch extractor fixed.

G.1   Acoustic module pre-training

Mel-spectrogram reconstruction. The decoder is trained on waveform y, its corresponding mel-
spectrogram x, and the text t, using L1 reconstruction loss as
                                                                             
                      Lmel = Ex,t ∥x − M (G (htext · aalgn , sa , px , nx ))∥1 .                    (28)
Here, htext = T (t) is the encoded phoneme representation, and the attention alignment is denoted by
aalgn = A(x, t). The acoustic style vector of x is represented by sa = Ea (x), px symbolizes the
pitch F0 and nx indicates energy of x, and M (·) represents mel-spectrogram transformation. Follow-
ing [6], half of the time, raw attention output from A is used as alignment, allowing backpropagation
through the text aligner. For another 50% of the time, a monotonic version of aalgn is utilized via
dynamic programming algorithms (see Appendix A in [6]).
TMA objectives. We follow [6] and use the original sequence-to-sequence ASR loss function Ls2s
to fine-tune the pre-trained text aligner, preserving the attention alignment during end-to-end training:
                                                    "N               #
                                                     X
                                      Ls2s = Ex,t         CE(ti , t̂i ) ,                           (29)
                                                    i=1

where N is the number of phonemes in t, ti is the i-th phoneme token of t, t̂i is the i-th predicted
phoneme token, and CE(·) denotes the cross-entropy loss function.
Additionally, we apply the monotonic loss Lmono to ensure that soft attention approximates its
non-differentiable monotonic version:
                                                                  
                                     Lmono = Ex,t ∥aalgn − ahard ∥1 ,                               (30)
where ahard is the monotonic version of aalgn obtained through dynamic programming algorithms
(see Appendix A in [6] for more details).
Adversarial objectives. Two adversarial loss functions, originally used in HifiGAN [30], are
employed to enhance the sound quality of the reconstructed waveforms: the LSGAN loss function
Ladv for adversarial training and the feature-matching loss Lfm .
                                    h                                               i
                                                                                  2
                  Ladv (G; D) = Et,x (D ((G (htext · aalgn , sa , px , nx ))) − 1) ,                (31)
                                       h                                          i
                                                                                2
                    Ladv (D; G) = Et,x (D ((G (htext · aalgn , sa , px , nx )))) +
                                     h            i                                                 (32)
                                                2
                                  Ey (D(y) − 1) ,
                             " Λ                                                        #
                              X 1
                                            l         l
              Lfm = Ey,t,x                D (y) − D (G (htext · aalgn , sa , px , nx )) 1 ,         (33)
                                     Nl
                               l=1

where D represents both MPD and MRD, Λ is the total number of layers in D, and Dl denotes the
output feature map of l-th layer with Nl number of features.
In addition, we included the truncated pointwise relativistic loss function [49] to further improve the
sound quality:
                                         h                                     i
                                                                              2
    Lrel (G; D) = E{ŷ,y|D(ŷ)≤D(y)+mGD } τ − ReLU τ − (D (ŷ) − D(y) − mGD )      ,                (34)


                                                    26
                                         h                                     i
                                                                              2
    Lrel (D; G) = E{ŷ,y|D(y)≤D(ŷ)+mDG } τ − ReLU τ − (D(y) − D (ŷ) − mDG )      ,                   (35)

where ŷ = G (htext · aalgn , sa , py , ny ) is the generated sample, ReLU(·) is the rectified linear unit
function, τ is the truncation factor that is set to be 0.04 per [49], mGD and mDG are margin
parameters defined by the median of the score difference:

                                        mGD = My,ŷ [D(ŷ) − D(y)] ,                                   (36)

                                 mDG = My,ŷ [D(y) − D(ŷ)] ,                                          (37)
where M [·] is the median operation.
Acoustic module pre-training full objectives. Our full objective functions in the acoustic modules
pre-training can be summarized as follows with hyperparameters λs2s and λmono :
         min         Lmel + λs2s Ls2s + λmono Lmono                      min Ladv (D; G)
      G,A,Ea ,F,T                                                         D
                                                                 (38)                           (39)
                     + Ladv (G; D) + Lrel (G; D) + Lfm                         + Lrel (D; G)
Following [6], we set λs2s = 0.2 and λmono = 5.

G.2     Joint training

Duration prediction. We use the following cross-entropy loss to train the duration predictor:
                                            "N L                                   #
                                             XX
                               Lce = Edgt              CE (q[k, i], I (dgt [i] ≥ k)) ,                 (40)
                                             i=1 k=1

where I (·) is the indicator function, q = S(hbert , sp ) is the output of the predictor under the prosodic
style vector sp = Ep (x) and prosodic text embeddings hbert = B(t), N is the number of phonemes
in t, and dgt is the ground truth duration obtained by summing aalgn along the mel frame axis.
Additionally, we employ the L-1 loss to make sure the approximated duration is also optimized:
                                                                    
                                          Ldur = Edgt ∥dgt − dpred ∥1 ,                                (41)
                      L
                            q[k, i] is the approximated predicted duration of the ith phoneme.
                      P
where dpred [i] =
                      k=1

Prosody prediction. We use Lf0 and Ln , which are F0 and energy reconstruction loss, respectively:

                                             Lf 0 = Ex [∥px − p̂x ∥1 ]                                 (42)

                                             Ln = Ex [∥nx − n̂x ∥1 ]                                   (43)
where p̂x , n̂x = P (hbert , sp ) are the predicted pitch and energy of x.
Mel-spectrogram reconstruction. During joint training, we modify Lmel as follows:
                                                                                     
                            Lmel = Ex,t ∥x − M (G (htext · aalgn , sa , p̂x , n̂x ))∥1 .               (44)
Now we use the predicted pitch p̂x and energy n̂x to reconstruct the speech. We also make similar
changes to Ladv , Lfm , and Lrel during joint training.
SLM adversarial objective. The SLM discriminator can easily overpower the generator and disable
the gradient flow to the generator. To facilitate learning when the discriminator overpowers the
generator, we use the LSGAN loss [48] instead of the min-max loss in eq. 5:
                                      h                                                     i
                                                                                          2
                    Lslm (G; D) = Et,x (DSLM ((G (htext · apred , ŝa , px̂ , nx̂ ))) − 1) ,           (45)


                                                         27
                                    h                                                i
                                                                                   2
                 Lslm (D; G) = Et,x (DSLM ((G (htext · apred , ŝa , px̂ , nx̂ )))) +
                                  h               i                                               (46)
                                                2
                               Ey (DSLM (y) − 1) ,
where ŝa is the acoustic style sampled from style diffusion, apred is the predicted alignment obtained
through the differentiable duration upsampler from the predicted duration dpred , and px̂ and nx̂ are
the predicted pitch and energy with the sampled prosodic style ŝp .
Joint training full objectives. Our full objective functions in joint training can be summarized as
follows with hyperparameters λdur , λce , λf 0 , λn , λs2s , and λmono :

                         min             Lmel + λce Lce + λdur Ldur + λf 0 Lf 0 + λn Ln
                 G,A,Ea ,Ep ,T,B,V,S,P

                                         + λs2s Ls2s + λmono Lmono + Ladv (G; D)                  (47)
                                         + Lrel (G; D) + Lfm + Lslm (G; D) + Ledm ,
where Ledm is defined in eq. 3.
The discriminator loss is given by:

                           min Ladv (D; G) + Lrel (D; G) + Lslm (D; G)                            (48)
                           D,C

Following [6], we set λs2s = 0.2, λmono = 5, λdur = 1, λf 0 = 0.1, λn = 1 and λce = 1.




                                                    28
