1

A3-CodGen : A Repository-Level Code Generation
Framework for Code Reuse with Local-Aware,
Global-Aware, and Third-Party-Library-Aware

arXiv:2312.05772v5 [cs.SE] 28 Oct 2024

Dianshu Liao, Shidong Pan, Xiaoyu Sun, Xiaoxue Ren, Qing Huang, Zhenchang Xing, Huan Jin, Qinying Li

Abstract—LLM-based code generation tools are essential to
help developers in the software development process. Existing
tools often disconnect with the working context, i.e., the code
repository, causing the generated code to be not similar to human
developers. In this paper, we propose a novel code generation
framework, dubbed A3 -CodGen, to harness information within
the code repository to generate code with fewer potential logical
errors, code redundancy, and library-induced compatibility issues. We identify three types of representative information for the
code repository: local-aware information from the current code
file, global-aware information from other code files, and thirdparty-library information. Results demonstrate that by adopting
the A3 -CodGen framework, we successfully extract, fuse, and
feed code repository information into the LLM, generating more
accurate, efficient, and highly reusable code. The effectiveness
of our framework is further underscored by generating code
with a higher reuse rate, compared to human developers. This
research contributes significantly to the field of code generation,
providing developers with a more powerful tool to address the
evolving demands in software development in practice.
Index Terms—Code Reuse, Code Generation, Code Repository
Knowledge Mining, Prompt Engineering

I. I NTRODUCTION

I

N the realm of Software Engineering, the advent of Large
Language Models (LLMs) has revolutionized various tasks,
including code generation [1], [2], [3], [4], [5]. The automatic
generation of code by these models significantly reduces
development time and effort [6]. Specifically, in the process
of evolving software projects, software engineering developers
are frequently tasked to add new features and functionality [7].
LLMs such as ChatGPT [8], GitHub Copilot [9], Codex [10]
are capable of automatically generating code based on the
developers’ requirements (e.g., natural language descriptions
of functions and function definitions).
A significant gap still persists between the code generated
by LLMs and that crafted by human developers. When adding
new functionality to a specific module, developers already had
sufficient knowledge about the current task and the entire code
D. Liao, X. Sun are with School of Computing, Australian National
University, Australia.
Q. Huang, the corresponding author, is with the School of Computer Information Engineering at Jiangxi Normal University, China (e-mail:
qh@jxnu.edu.cn).
S. Pan and Z. Xing are with CSIRO’s Data61, Australia, and the School of
Computing, Australian National University, Australia.
X. Ren is with the State Key Laboratory of Blockchain and Data Security,
Zhejiang University. Also with Hangzhou High-Tech Zone (Binjiang) Institute
of Blockchain and Data Security, China.
H. Jin, Q. Li are with the Jiangxi University of Technology, China.

repository. Also, according to a previous study [11], developers
often expect that code generation tools could be aware of more
context/knowledge by using specific frameworks/libraries [12].
In addition, they hope the generated code maximum utilizes
specific third-party libraries (e.g., invocation of an API in a library) [13], [14], [15]. Above all, in contrast to straightforward
LLM-based code generation, developers especially consider
three primary categories of information:
1 Local Information: This category encompasses information within the current working context, including defined
function signatures and variables. It also covers the relative file paths of the module within the project, such as
the module’s Fully Qualified Names (FQNs), like unstructured.documents.html. Local information is crucial to ensuring
the generated code utilizes accurate variables and operates
harmoniously with the other functions in the project.
2 Global Information: This category involves functions
from other code files within the same repository, accessible
via fully qualified import API names. A previous research
highlighted that only around 30% of methods operate independently in open-source projects [16]. Hence, these external
functions are essential for implementing new functions without
duplicating code. For example, developers import functions
“from unstructured.partition.text type import is bulleted text”
from other modules, instead of writing a function to judge
“bulleted text” from scratch.
3 Third-Party-Library Information: This category includes third-party libraries pre-installed in the code repository’s environment. These libraries can be accessed directly
through import statements, enhancing functionality without
extra dependencies.
Unfortunately, none of the existing code generation methods
take the above three types of information into consideration
simultaneously. As the most common code generation tool,
ChatGPT [8] demonstrates commendable coding ability [17]
but relies solely on user input. GitHub Copilot [9], which explicitly utilizes local information spanning the current working
context, often struggles to harness the full potential of global
information presented in the entire code repository.1 When
these methods disregard local and global module information,
they risk omitting crucial logic during code generation [18].
For instance, they might forget to extract text from a tag before
attempting to identify it as a bullet point (is bulleted text).
Furthermore, neglecting third-party library information may
1 https://githubnext.com/projects/copilot-view/

2

cause the LLMs to randomly select third-party libraries and
generate code based on them. If the selected libraries thirdparty are unsupported under the given environment, it can lead
to compatibility issues, such as “ModuleNotFoundError: No
module named xxx.”
Therefore, to encounter the insufficient information awareness issue in LLM code generation tasks, we introduce novel
A3 -CodGen (Local Aware, Global Aware, and Third-PartyLibrary Aware Code Generation). This framework systematically mines and utilizes external knowledge from the local
module, global modules, and third-party libraries. First, our
framework begins by acquiring foundational information about
functions and third-party libraries within the code repository.
This initial step provides a solid function base and a thirdparty-library base that supports subsequent information retrieval processes. Next, it conducts knowledge retrieval from
the function base, the third-party library base, and the current
file. These retrieved insights are systematically organized into
three distinct categories of code repository-aware knowledge.
Subsequently, the framework seamlessly fuses these three
types of code repository-aware knowledge into a cohesive
prompt. This prompt serves as the input to the foundational
LLM, enabling the model to generate code that closely resembles the work of human developers.
Our experiments are driven by two primary objectives:
1) To investigate the effectiveness of three distinct types of
code repository information in assisting the model with code
generation for specific code repositories. 2) To assess whether
our framework can efficiently extract and utilize these three
types of information. We crawl and filter 29 representative
Python code repositories from PyPI, assembling 13,784 functions. To ensure a diverse benchmark dataset, we conduct a
sampling process, selecting representative functions from each
repository to total 383 functions. We subsequently label these
benchmarks and the model outputs generated under different
configurations to evaluate the performance of A3 -CodGen.
Our experimental results confirm the efficacy of incorporating three types of code repository-awareness knowledge
in aiding the foundational model to reuse code repository
knowledge. The A3 -CodeGen framework excels in recognizing
and utilizing these three types of code repository knowledge,
leading to exceptional performance metrics in terms of local
reuse, global reuse, and third-party library reuse. Thanks to its
outstanding code reuse capabilities, our framework is capable
of generating concise code that seamlessly integrates with the
code repository’s working environment. Furthermore, we identify optimal configurations for local and global information,
enabling the model to effectively leverage essential knowledge
while avoiding the potential pitfalls of information overload.
By comparing A3 -CodGen with GitHub CoPilot, we find
that while both perform similarly in local reuse, A3 -CodGen
surpasses CoPilot in global reuse and third-party library reuse.
We propose potential methods for improving industry products
like CoPilot by incorporating our approach.
The main contributions of this paper are as follows.
•

To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to conduct
an extensive empirical study, systematically investigating

the usefulness of local information, global information, and
third-party-library information in code generation tasks.
3
• We introduce a novel framework, dubbed A -CodGen
Framework, effectively knowledge mining and knowledge
utilization, aiding models in better understanding and fully
utilizing the knowledge within code repositories.
• We construct a new benchmark dataset, namely RepoEval,
to reflect the effectiveness on code-repository-aware code
generation. Results demonstrate the validity of the three
types of code repository information and show that our
framework can effectively mine and utilize this knowledge.
• We open-source our replication package [19], including the
dataset, source code, and experimental results, for follow-up
research.
II. M OTIVATION
A. Limitation of Existing Code Generation Approaches
Benefiting from the rapid development of Transformer
structures and pre-trained LLMs in the early 2020s, codeLLMs experienced significant growth. Transformer code models, exemplified by milestone works such as CodeT5 [20],
CodeBERT [21], and GraphCodeBERT [22], dominated the
scene. More recently, decoder-only Transformer models have
become the mainstream in generative models. Represented by
Codex [10], CodeGen [23], and others like [24], [25], [26],
[27], [28].
Nowadays, to Software Engineering developers, LLMempowered code generation has become an irreplaceable assistant tool in their development cycle [29], [30]. Although
the code-LLM has been developed for years, those code
generation tools still play a supporting role in the actual
SE development. Essentially, there are significant differences
between the code generated by LLMs and that crafted by
human developers. Specifically, we conclude the phenomenon
in the following threefold:
Observation 1: Followed by the innate features of LLMs,
the content and quality of generated codes heavily depend
on the human-crafted prompts.
Discussion 1: Providing longer prompts with richer content
seems a plausible solution. With the growth of LLM size,
the maximum input length increases from 512 tokens for the
early models [31] to 32,000 tokens for the extended GPT-4
models [32]. However, it is still impossible to feed the entire
code repository and all other relevant information into the
LLMs. Furthermore, studies have demonstrated that irrelevant context in prompts not only affects model efficiency
and increases expenses, but also potentially compromises the
model performance [33]. Therefore, to maintain the practicability and effectiveness simultaneously for code generation
tasks, external context information should be extracted and
selectively fed into LLMs.
• Observation 2: Existing methods focus on generating independent and often small-scale code units [34], [16]. According to a previous study [34], the code generated by LLMs
shows lower method-level correctness. Although various
benchmarks have been proposed (Details are discussed in
•

3

Direct Generation

Local Module Aware & Global Module Aware
& Third-Party-Library Aware Code Generation

Developer Requirement

Developer Requirement

Function Definition: def is_list_item_tag(tag_elem) -> bool
Function Description: Checks to see if a tag contains bulleted text.

Function Definition: def is_list_item_tag(tag_elem) -> bool
Function Description: Checks to see if a tag contains bulleted text.

Randomly use bs4 library (not available in the code repo).
Missing logic to extract text from text tag element.
Define a new function is_bullet_text (available in the code repo)

Reuse the lxml library in Third Party Libraries.
Reuse the _construct_text function in the local module.
Reuse the is_bulleted_text function in the global modules.

def is_list_item_tag(tag_elem) -> bool:
def is_bullet_text(text):
"""Checks if the text contains a bullet character."""
unicodes = ["\u0095", "\u2022", "\u2023", "\u2043", ...]
bullet_pattern = "|".join(re.escape(bullet) for bullet in unicodes)
return re.search(bullet_pattern, text) is not None
soup = BeautifulSoup(tag_elem, 'html.parser')
list_tags = soup.find_all(['ul', 'ol'])
for list_tag in list_tags:
list_items = list_tag.find_all('li')
for item in list_items:
item_text = item.get_text()
if is_bullet_text(item_text):
return True
return False

typing

numpy

Local Module (Working Context)
unstructured/documents/html.py (local)

Generated Code

Generated Code
import re
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

Third-Party Libraries (External Context)
lxml

from lxml import etree
from unstructured.partition.text_type import is_bulleted_text
def is_list_item_tag(tag_elem) -> bool:
if tag_elem.tag in ["li", "dd"]
return True
text = _construct_text (tag_elem)
if text and is_bulleted_text (text)
return True
return False

os

sys

......

Global Modules (Repository Context)
unstructured/cleaners/core.py (global)

def ......
def _get_links_from_tag(tag_elem) -> List[Link]:
......

def ......

unstructured/cleaners/core.py (global)

def ......

unstructured\partition\text_type.py (global)

def _construct_text (tag_elem: etree.Element,
include_tail_text: bool = True) -> str:
"""Extracts text from a text tag element."""
......
Developer Requirement
Generated Code

def contains_us_phone_number(text: str) -> bool:
......
def contains_verb(text: str) -> bool:
......

def ......
def is_bulleted_text (text: str) -> bool:
"""Checks to see if the section of text
is part of a bulleted list."""
......
.py files (global) ......

Fig. 1: Knowledge-Starved Code Generation vs. Code Repository Aware Code Generation.

the Related Work (Section VII)), newly generated code
remains questionable.
Discussion 2: The correctness relates to many factors, and
evaluation of correctness is already challenging enough.
Studies have shown that larger and more powerful foundation LLMs lead to better code generation correctness. Additionally, retrieving and reusing existing functions or APIs
(which are usually verified by other human developers), as
the skeleton for code generation, could also fundamentally
improve the correctness. This is also the strategy that human
developers commonly apply in practice.
• Observation 3: Some code-LLMs (e.g., GPT-4) have developed superior skills in simple algorithms such as greedy
algorithm and searching strategies, but they perform poorly
in complicated data structures such as tree structure and
graph theory [35].
Discussion 3: Similarly, instead of generating complex code
snippets from scratch, importing functions that are already
implemented can mitigate the shortcomings of advancedlevel programming challenges. For example, Python developers are likely to import functions from networkx package
to build a graph, not building graphs by the dictionary-like
data structure.
B. Code Generation in Code Repository
During software development, programmers typically work
within a specific code environment, essentially a designated
code repository. This repository encompasses all project modules, functions in these modules, and third-party libraries, serving as the foundational framework for building and expanding
software applications. In this context, developers, especially
experienced ones, must thoroughly navigate and understand
this code repository environment to ensure seamless integration of newly added code with the existing one. When it comes
to LLM-based code generation techniques, solely relying on
inputting developer requirements to these models fails to fully
utilize the potential of LLMs in interacting with existing
code repository environments. Specifically, these techniques
are blind to the repository’s unique naming conventions and
programming styles, particularly when the completion target is

relevant to cross-file context [36], [37], [38]. Instead of using a
single code file, well-designed programs emphasize separating
complicated functionality into independent modules, each implementing only one aspect of the desired functionality [39],
[40].
As illustrated in Fig. 1, in the Direct Generation method,
developers input their requirements directly into ChatGPT,
expecting to receive code for a function that executes the task
of “checking to see if a tag contains bulleted text”. However,
the generated code, due to its lack of knowledge about local
modules, fails to adequately consider a crucial factor: before
determining whether a tag contains bulleted text, it’s essential
to first extract the text content from the provided tag elem,
which is a vital prerequisite. As a result, the generated code
(highlighted in the yellow box) simply searches for content
within the <ul> and <ol> tags. If bullet text exists outside
these tags, for example, in the input “<div>\u0095 This is a
list item.</div>”, the generated code will be unable to extract
text content, thus preventing accurate detection.
Furthermore, since the model is unaware of the existence
of the “check text for bullet characters” function in the global
module, it defines a new function is bullet text (highlighted in
blue) in the generated code. A large part of this code duplicates
the function is bullet text in the global module unstructured/partition/text type.py, resulting in code redundancy. It also
brings additional concerns about the correctness of the newly
generated function.
Additionally, since the model is unaware of which thirdparty libraries are available, it arbitrarily imports and uses the
bs4 (BeautifulSoup4) library. This can result in the generated
code that refers to a library that is not available, leading to
the bug “ModuleNotFoundError: No module named ***”.
These knowledge gaps highlight the limitations of existing
code generation approaches, highlighting the need for more
context-aware methods that can effectively interact with the
code repository environment. In summary, a lack of knowledge about local and global modules can result in models
generating code lacking functional constraints or containing
redundancies. A lack of knowledge about third-party libraries
in the code repository can lead to models using arbitrary third-

4

party libraries, causing problems with the generated code not
working. As a result, generating code in specific modules
of the code repository is more than just meeting functional
requirements. To generate code similar to human developers,
the approach must fully understand and effectively utilize this
diverse contextual knowledge to ensure that newly introduced
code seamlessly coordinates with the existing code repository.
C. Bridging the Gap: Making LLMs Aware of Three Types of
Repository Knowledge
Above all, in order to enable LLMs to fully utilize information spanning over the code repository environment for code
generation, it is essential to provide the model with three types
of knowledge: local modules, global modules, and third-party
library information.
As shown in Fig. 1 Local Module Aware & Global Module
Aware & Third-Party Library Aware Code Generation, when
the developer requirement is entered, since the model is aware
of the knowledge of the local module, the generated code
reuses the construct text function (highlighted in yellow)
in the local module to extract the text content in the text
label element. In addition, because the model is aware of
knowledge of the global module, the generated code reuses the
is bulleted text function (highlighted in blue) from the global
module unstructured/partition/text type.py, thus reducing redundant code definitions. In addition, the model is aware of
the existence of third-party libraries and therefore reuses the
lxml library to ensure its availability.
In the next section, we comprehensively describe how to
extract, structure, and utilize local aware, global aware, and
third-party library aware information from code repositories.
III. A3 C OD G EN F RAMEWORK
In this section, we elaborate on our novel A3 -CodGen
Framework to harness the full potential of code repository
knowledge for assisting LLMs in code generation. As depicted
in Fig. 2, the A3 -CodGen Framework comprises three essential
phases. First, we obtain the function base and third-party
library base (Section III-A), providing sufficient knowledge
to support subsequent retrieval. Then, we retrieve the code
repository knowledge from other code files, the third-party
library repository, and the current file. After that, we organize
them into 3 types of code repository aware knowledge (Section III-B). Finally, the three code repository-aware knowledge
are fused into a prompt (Section III-C), serving as input to
the foundation LLM, to ultimately generate codes with three
essential awareness.
A. Repository Knowledge Base Construction
Code repositories contain a wealth of knowledge to exploit,
but this knowledge usually exists in an unstructured form and
cannot be directly utilized effectively, scattering in the code
repository. Therefore, we need to perform systematic knowledge extraction to transform and compress this knowledge
into a structured form in order to build a knowledge base to
support subsequent knowledge utilization, such as knowledge

retrieval. Thus, we perform code repository information extraction (Section III-A1) and third-party library extraction
(Section III-A2) to obtain the function base and third-partylibrary base, respectively.
1) Code Repository Information Extraction: For a code
repository, we can effortlessly obtain all code files in the
entire repository by traversing all the directories within the
project. Then, for each file, we extract all included functions,
gathering both basic code information and semantic code
knowledge. This process snowballs to extract all essential
repository information.
Basic Code Knowledge Extraction. Abstract Syntax Tree
(AST) is a tree representation of the source code, and studies
have demonstrated its usefulness on various SE tasks [41]. In
this study, we employ the Python library ast to analyze the
AST for each source code file in the code repository. From
the AST, we extract six essential types of basic information: 1)
Comment. 2) Signature. This knowledge illustrates the parameters and returns of a function. For example, the signature of
the function construct text is def construct text(tag elem,
include tail text)->str. 3) Function Source code. 4) Class
associated with the function (if a function is a member of
a class). 5) Is Empty tag. True means empty function, False
means empty label. For example, function construct text has
is Empty value False. 6) The file path of the function. This
reflects the relative location of the current function in the entire
code repository.
Semantic Code Knowledge Extraction. AST is criticized
for its prone to long-term dependency problems. Also, simply
employing AST potential weakens the capability to capture
real and complex semantics [41]. Thus, we extract three
types of semantic code knowledge to enhance the basic code
knowledge, as follows:
1) Fully Qualified Name (FQN) of Functions. FQN indicates the function’s origin in the code repository and, if
applicable, the specific class within the module. For example, in the local module of the Fig. 1, the function
construct text (highlighted in yellow) has the FQN unstructured.documents.html. construct text.
2) Function Summary. Not every function is elaborated by
comments. Even comments exist, their quality varies; some
lack clear descriptions of the function’s basic functionality,
while others might be over-detailed. Overly lengthy descriptions can distract from understanding the function’s actual
usage and behavior. Therefore, we generate a function summary to precisely describe the purpose and functionality of the
function. Previous work has demonstrated that large language
models (LLMs) are capable of in-context learning [42], [43],
[44], where a task description and examples can enable LLMs
to perform well. Thus, we use GPT-3.5-Turbo [45] as the foundation model due to its demonstrated code understanding and
summarization capabilities, as well as its cost-effectiveness.
The selection of the foundation model is flexible, and our
method is also applicable to advanced models such as GPT4 [32], although they come at a higher cost.
Function Summarizer Unit. To generate natural language
semantic information for functions, we design a prompt as
the core of the Function Summarizer Unit. This prompt

5

①Repository Knowledge Base Construction

③A³ CodGen
Third-Party Library Base

Third-Party
Library
Extraction

Infomation Unification

lxml, typing, numpy, os, sys ......

3
Third-Party Library
Aware Knowledge
Function Base

Code
Repository
Code Repo Info
Extraction

function 1 < FQN, signature, source code, summary, code vector, summary vector, ...>
function 2 < FQN, signature, source code, summary, code vector, summary vector, ...>
function 3 < FQN, signature, source code, summary, code vector, summary vector, ...>
function 4 < FQN, signature, source code, summary, code vector, summary vector, ...>
......
function n < FQN, signature, source code, summary, code vector, summary vector, ....>

Global-Aware
Knowledge

2
A³
Function-Code

Information Unification

②Three Types of Repo-Aware Knoweldge Retrieval
Function Definition
Developer
Requirement

Function Description

What-If Code
Generation

What-If
Function-Code

Global Functions
Retrieval

Local Functions
Local Information Extraction

Class Instance Attributes
Local Module FQN

A³ Code
Generator

function 1 <FQN, signature, summary>
function 3 <FQN, signature, summary>
......
function k <FQN, signature, summary>

1
Information Unification

Local-Aware
Knowledge

Prompt
Construction

A³ Prompt

Module Variables

Current Code File
(Local Module)
Input/Output

AI-Unit

Non-AI-Unit

Mixed AI & Non-AI Unit

Fig. 2: A3 -CodGen Framework.
Function Summarizer
You are an expert Python programmer.
Given a function code, summarize it with short sentences.
Example-1
#function code
def to_arrow_schema(schema):
import pyarrow as pa
fields = [pa.field(field.name, to_arrow_type(field.dataType), nullable=field.nullable) for field in schema]
return pa.schema(fields)
#summary
Convert a schema from Spark to Arrow
......
Example-5
Please answer strictly in the examples format and do not add extra sentences!
#function code
#{}#
#summary
#{}#
Input:
#{function code}#

Output:
#{summary}#

Fig. 3: Function Summarizer Unit
creates summaries for each function. As shown in Fig. 3, the
prompt includes a task description (highlighted in purple), five
demonstration examples, and an input template. The input to
this unit is the function’s code (highlighted in green), and the
output is the model-generated summary (highlighted in red).
3) Vector Representations. In the previous two steps, we
underlined explictly select information. To ensure efficient
retrieval of global functions later on, having an effective
code representation that faithfully captures function semantics
is essential. Hence, we employ a dual-pronged approach,
conducting separate embeddings for both the source code and
the function summaries. This results in the creation of code
vector and summary vector, respectively.
2) Third-Party Library Extraction: Third-party libraries
often appear in code files, and when specific libraries are
provided to a model, it likely has learned how to use them
during training [46], [47]. Therefore, supplying just the library
name allows the model to automatically understand how to

use it for a given task. For example, we can ask the model
to use the NumPy library to compute the cosine similarity,
given the input vector a and vector b. In this case, the model
can directly call functions in the NumPy library, such as
numpy.dot and numpy.linalg.norm, to perform the required
computations. The pre-trained model’s prior knowledge and
extensive large-scale training enable them to effectively utilize
third-party libraries, improving the efficiency and accuracy of
code generation. Therefore, we extract the import statements
of third-party libraries directly from all code files via AST
and saved their library names to construct the third-party
library base. It is important to note that the same library
can have different versions, and API call methods may vary
between versions. To address this, the current repository’s
Python interpreter or the “pip list” command can be used to
determine the versions of pre-installed libraries, guiding the
model in generating accurate code.
B. Three Types of Repo-Aware Knowledge Retrieval
As we discussed in Section II-A, although the maximum
input length grows greatly, it is still impossible to feed
the entire code repo and third-party library information to
LLMs. Furthermore, irrelevant context not only affects model
efficiency and increases expenses, but also potentially compromises the model performance [33].
To enable the model to fully utilize the three types of
information extracted from the code repository, we conduct
comprehensive knowledge mining: extracting four types of
local information (Section III-B1), retrieving global functions
from the function base using developer requirements to obtain
global-aware information (Section III-B2), and structuring
third-party library information from the third-party library
base (Section III-B3).

6

1) Local-Module Knowledge Mining: Within the user’s
working context, referred to as the local module, four types
of local-module information can be encountered:
Local functions. Local functions encompass all functions
that are defined and implemented within the local module.
We extract these local functions and represent them in the
form of <Fully Qualified Name (FQN), Function Summary, Function Signature>. The FQN provides details about
the function’s location within the module, the Function
Summary reflects the natural language description of the
function’s purpose, and the Function Signature reveals its
input and output specifications.
• Class Instance Attributes. Class instance attributes (or
instance variables) are variables defined within a class’s
constructor function ( init in Python). These variables
are specific to instances of the class and store instancespecific attributes or state information. Some local functions
may be defined within a class might involve interactions
with class instance attributes, accessing or modifying them
to achieve specific functionality.
• Local Module FQN. Local Module FQN partially reflects
the structural information of the working context (local
module) within the entire code repository. It helps the model
understand the context of how local functions, class instance
attributes, and variables within this module are used.
• Module variables. Local modules may define variables,
some of which can directly interact with local functions,
potentially supporting the functionality of newly added
functions. We unify the declarations of these variables.
However, if there are no variables defined within the module,
we indicate this with None.
•

2) Global-Module Knowledge Mining: In addition to using
local module knowledge, global module knowledge also plays
a significant role in code generation. Instead of letting the
model implement complicated logic steps from scratch, we
expect the model can directly call functions if they are already
present in other code files. To help models realize that global
functions can be reused, we retrieve global functions in the
code repository and organize them in a structured way. The
global module knowledge mining process is divided into three
phases: what-if code generation, global function retrieval, and
information unification.
•

What-If Code Generator Unit: In Section III-A1, we
construct a function base derived from the code repository.
To retrieve global functions from this base, we consider
both textual and code semantic similarity. For code semantic
similarity matching, we utilize the code generation capability of the LLM, inputting user requirements to generate a
what-if code, which encapsulates the logic to fulfill those
requirements and serves as input for code similarity matching in the Global Function Retrieval Unit. For in-context
learning, we provide three representative examples. Notably,
as the generated code is not the final code and only used to
retrieve the global function, so completeness is not required.
As shown in the experiment results in Section V-B, using
function descriptions for text similarity and what-if code
for code similarity retrieval can retrieve more useful global

functions compared to using only function descriptions.
Global Function Retrieval Unit: This unit uses function descriptions and the what-if function-code as input
to retrieve reusable global functions from the function
base. Specifically, we first embed function description into
vectordes and compute the cosine similarity between this
vector and the summary vectors of all functions in the
function base. Thus, we can rank and obtain the top k
RetrievedF undes . Second, we embed the what-if functioncode as a vectorf and compute the cosine similarity between this vector and the code vectors of all the functions in the function base, so we can rank and obtain
the top k RetrievedF uncode . Finally, we merge the sets
of RetrievedF undes and RetrievedF undes to obtain the
global function that is most relevant to the provided input,
which is denoted as RetrievedF un.
• Information Unification Unit: For each RetrievedF un,
we organize and display the retrieved information as <FQN,
function signature, summary> in a structured format.
3) Third-Party Library Knowledge Mining: In the process
of code generation, to behavior similar to human developers,
it’s crucial for the LLM to be aware of the third-party libraries
pre-installed in the current code repository environment. Without this awareness, there’s a risk of generating code that relies
on third-party libraries unsupported by the current environment, rendering the code non-functional. To ensure that, we
create a comprehensive list of all the third-party libraries found
in the third-party library base, as extracted in section III-A2.
It’s important to note that we extract only the names of these
libraries and do not include any of their code. This approach
is supported by recent studies showing that LLMs can serve
as neural knowledge bases for SE knowledge due to their
pre-training on extensive source code corpora, which includes
third-party library knowledge [48], [49], [50], [42]. Several
works demonstrate library-oriented code generation, where
LLMs generate code based on specific library APIs [48], [49],
[50], [51]. By constructing this list of third-party libraries,
we empower the LLM to generate code that aligns with the
available environment and utilizes the appropriate libraries
effectively, reducing the risk of non-executable code.

•

C. A3 Code Generation
After section III-B, we obtain structured local-aware knowledge, global-aware knowledge, and third-party-library-aware
knowledge. To ensure the model’s full awareness of these three
types of knowledge, we design an A3 Code Generation Unit
that seamlessly integrates user requirements with the three
knowledge sources to generate A3 functional code.
The A3 Code Generation Unit, as depicted in Fig. 4, consists
of four key components: task description, examples, input,
and output. In the task description (purple part), we employ
a structured prompt to delineate the repository-aware code
generation task. Key components of the prompt include: 1)
@persona: Guiding the model to assume the role of an expert
developer, providing clarity on the task. 2) @terminology:
Defining crucial information in a keyword format. 3) @instruction: This section furnishes explicit instructions for executing
the task:

7

A³ Code Generator
System {
@persona{
You are an expert developer;
You will generate a new function in a current file in the code repository;
}
@terminology {
developer_requirement: The function_description and function_definition of to_be_generated_code
local_aware_knowledge: The functions in the current file......
global_aware_knowledge: The functions in other files......
third_party_libraries_aware_knowledge: Third-party libraries that are already installed in the environment.
to_be_generated_code: The source code of the to-be-generated new function.
}
@instruction {
@command: ......
@rule: ......
@format {Present the source code of to_be_generated_code;}
}
......
}
Example-1
{Input} {Output}
Example-2
{Input} {Output}
Example-3
{Input} {Output}
Input:
Output:
#{developer_requirement}#
#{to_be_generated_code}#
#{local_aware_knowledge}#
#{global_aware_knowledge}#
#{third_party_library_aware_knowledge}#

Fig. 4: A3 Code Generator Unit
@command: Offering an overarching strategy for the model
to follow during the task.
• @rule: Outlining the basic limitations and considerations to
be observed during code generation.
• @format: Detailing the expected presentation format for the
source code generated for the new function.
In the @command, we guide the model through the code
generation process step by step by employing chain-ofthought [52], [53], [54].
• Firstly, in @command1, we prompt the model to contemplate the logic and steps required to fulfill the developer’s
request.
• Next, in @command2, we encourage the model to consider
whether there is any reusable information within the localaware knowledge and utilize it if available.
• Following that, in @command3, we guide the model to think
about whether there are any reusable global functions within
the global-aware knowledge and utilize them if present.
• Subsequently, in @command4, we prompt the model to
explore how to leverage the third-party library-aware knowledge to interact with libraries effectively.
• Finally, in @command5, if the model cannot leverage any
information, it is instructed to generate code directly based
on the logic and steps it has formulated.
• Additionally, we include an @command that reiterates the
importance of strictly following the steps from 1 to 5.
In the @rule, we establish three rules to govern the code
generated by the model, including calling import FQN, restricting the use of specified third-party libraries, and ensuring
that the generated code is not empty (as the model may
occasionally generate abstract functions). We then provide
three representative examples. Finally, we input the developer
requirement and our 3 knowledge into Unit to get the A3
function code (i.e., to be generated code in Fig. 4 (b)).
Notably, developers only needs to input requirements, and all
3 types of repo-aware knowledge are obtained automatically.
Due to the page limitation, we have organized all prompts
for our AI units (e.g., Code Summarizer, and A3 Code
•

Generator) in the “prompts/” folder of our artifact [19].
IV. E XPERIMENT S ETTING
In this section, we first outline the selection of foundation
models, the dataset, and evaluation metrics for assessing our
framework. We then introduce five Research Questions (RQs):
• RQ1: Does Local Module Aware Knowledge indeed help
LLMs fully utilize local module knowledge during code
generation, and which types are most effective in improving
local awareness?
• RQ2: Is Global Module Aware Knowledge effective in
assisting LLMs to utilize global module knowledge during
code generation, and what is the optimal “k” value for
retrieving global functions?
• RQ3: Does Third-Party Library Aware Knowledge significantly impact LLMs’ awareness of available third-party
libraries during code generation?
3
• RQ4: What is the overall performance of our A -CodGen
framework?
3
• RQ5: How does A -CodGen framework compare to existing
code generation tools like GitHub Copilot?
A. Foundation Models
We select GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k [45] as the default foundation
LLM for this study due to its excellent performance in various
SE tasks, along with its popularity and cost-efficiency. As
for the embedding model, we use the ada-embedding-002
model [55], which generates high quality sentence embeddings for effective similarity computation and retrieval operations. [56], [57]. Similar to other LLM-empowered frameworks in SE domain, the more powerful model is selected,
the better performance can be achieved, generally.
B. Dataset Collection
While there exist some benchmark datasets designed for
code generation, such as [58], [59], [34], [60], [16], they
suffer from the following issues: 1) some of the existing
datasets contain code repositories that are already present
in the training corpora of popular LLMs, leading to an
overestimation of the code repository-aware code generation
capabilities [61], [62]. 2) existing benchmarks only evaluate
class-level or small unit test cases, which is not suitable for
our research goals. 3) Based on our literature review, none
of existing code generation benchmark datasets can evaluate
whether A3 -CodGen can effectively obtain, understand, and
correctly reuse three distinct types of code repository information. Therefore, to address the potential risk of data leakage
and accurately reflect the capability of A3 -CodGen, we created
a new benchmark dataset, dubbed RepoEval. This decision
stems from our intention to verify that the model truly grasp
A3 code generation after receiving information we provide.
1) Code Repository Collection: To construct a benchmark
dataset, we follow methodologies similar to those in previous works [63], [64], [65]. As we focus on Python code
repositories, it is common to collect packages from the PyPI
ecosystem, as mentioned in Alfadel et al. [65].

8

To ensure that the chosen repositories are not part of the
training data for the models used, we verify the release dates
of each repository to identify their first release date. If the
first release date is after the training period of the model, it
means that the repository was not included in the training data.
According to OpenAI’s official website, the training data for
GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k is cut off as of September 2021. Therefore,
we select projects with the earliest release date after October 1,
2021, from PyPI. We further filter the GitHub repositories by
choosing those with more than 100 stars and 100 branches,
as these metrics indicate repository quality [64]. Ultimately,
we identify 29 code repositories to construct our benchmark,
each averaging 82.517 code files.
Then, we create 29 function bases and 29 third-party library
bases for the corresponding code repositories, following the
method outlined in Section III-A. The function bases from
these 29 code repositories encompass a total of 13,784 functions. Out of these, 10,077 are class member functions, leaving
3,707 as module functions. Since class member functions
often involve complex relationships related to inheritance and
other classes, it becomes highly labor-intensive to analyze
the code invocation relationships to construct the benchmark.
Therefore, our benchmark dataset focuses solely on module
functions. From these 3,707 module functions, we filter out
functions that had comments and were non-empty, and finally,
we obtain 1,533 functions.
2) Benchmark Construction: Given the comments and the
definition of a function, the corresponding source code for
that function serves as the standard answer to be generated.
Simultaneously, we extract call information for the function to
determine the extent of code reuse within it, because a higher
extent of function reuse reflects the framework learns better
from three awareness.
Given a function, code reuse falls into one of the three
categories: 1) It could be part of locally defined functions
within the local module; 2) belong to a global module; or 3)
belong to a third-party library. To obtain this reuse information,
we need to analyze the call relationships between functions
among codes. However, existing code analysis tools like pycallgraph [66] require code compilability to accurately generate call graphs for functions. Considering that it is impractical
to set up running environments for all these code repositories
due to diverse requirements and potential conflicts, and given
that static analysis tools like pyan [67] have relatively lower
accuracy and cannot meet our needs, we resort to manual
annotation to extract the call information between functions.
Manual annotation for each function is resource-intensive
and time-consuming. To ensure experiment efficiency, we
employ a statistical sampling method [68]. Specifically, we
perform sampling on the 1,533 module functions obtained
in Section IV-B1. We ensure that the estimated accuracy
within the sample remains within a 0.05 error range at a
95% confidence level while ensuring functions from each code
repository are included in the sample. Finally, we acquire 383
functions for subsequent experiments.

C. Metrics
To comprehensively evaluate whether the three awareness
are effective, we employ the following metrics:
Reuse Awareness: To assess the model’s ability to correctly
reuse local, global, and third-party library information when
necessary and avoid reuse when unnecessary, we computed
the following awareness metrics:
– True Positive (TP): The model-generated code correctly
reuses local, global, or third-party library information,
consistent with the benchmark code. For instance, if
the model-generated code reuses local functions and the
benchmark code also reuses local functions, it is considered TP in the case of local reuse, as well as in the case
of global reuse and third-party library reuse.
– False Positive (FP): The model-generated code incorrectly reuses local, global, or third-party library information, where no reuse occurs in the benchmark code.
– False Negative (FN): The model-generated code fails to
reuse local, global, or third-party library information, but
reuse occurs in the benchmark code.
– True Negative (TN): The model-generated code correctly
does not reuse local, global, or third-party library information, consistent with the benchmark code.
– Precision: Calculated as T P/(T P + F P ), indicating the
proportion of the model-generated code that is correctly
reused.
– Recall: Calculated as T P/(T P + F N ), indicating the
proportion of the code that actually needed to be reused
and is correctly reused by the model.
– F1: The harmonic mean of Precision and Recall, providing an overall measure of the model’s effectiveness in reusing code, calculated as 2 ∗ (P recision ∗
Recall)/(P recision + Recall).
– Accuracy: Calculated as (T P +T N )/(T P +F P +T N +
F N ), representing the percentage of cases where the
model is correctly aware or unaware.
• Reuse Correctness: After identifying local/global/thirdparty library information, we assess the correctness of reuse.
The metric is determined by the number of exact matches
between the functions/libraries reused by the model and
those in the benchmark, divided by the total number of
functions/libraries reused by the model. For instance, in
local reuse, if the model reuses functions locala , localb ,
and localc , and the benchmark reuses functions localb ,
localc , and locald , there are 2 exact matches, resulting in
a correctness score of 2/3 = 0.667. It’s important to note
that we do not use conventional metrics like BLEU [69],
ROUGE [70], or METEOR [71], as they only evaluate
token-level similarity between the model-generated code and
the benchmark code. These metrics do not effectively measure the model’s ability to correctly reuse code components
during generation.
• Library Coverage: This metric represents the proportion
of libraries used in the generated code that are already preinstalled in the code repository’s environment.
• Lines of Code (LOC): This metric reflects code conciseness, determined by counting lines after removing com•

9

ments. Lower LOC indicates more concise code.
To validate the call relationships between the extracted functions, we recruit two developers with over five years of Python
programming experience. Each function in the benchmark
dataset is independently labeled by both developers. They
evaluate whether the function utilizes local functions within
the current code file, assigning a score of 1 if it does and 0 if
it doesn’t. Similarly, they assess whether the function utilizes
global functions and third-party libraries, assigning scores of
1 or 0 accordingly. These scores contribute to calculating
reuse awareness. For functions involving reuse, they identify
all reused functions/libraries to calculate reuse correctness.
After the independent labeling, discrepancies are discussed
to reach a consensus. If any disagreements remain, the first
author resolves them and makes the final decision. In subsequent experiments, we use this benchmark for evaluation and
annotate the model-generated code using the same method.
To label the model-generated results, we recruit 4 master’s
students and 8 undergraduate students, each with at least
2 years of Python programming experience. After a 1-hour
training session on our standardized method, tasks are evenly
distributed among them. We utilize Cohen’s kappa [72] to
assess inter-rater agreement, with coefficients ranging from
86% to 95% for all annotated data (including the benchmark
dataset and model-generated results), indicating high agreement among assessments.

TABLE I: Comparison of the Local Reuse Awareness results
obtained with different Local Information.

V. E VALUATION
A. RQ1: Does Local Module Aware Knowledge indeed help
LLMs fully utilize local module knowledge during code generation, and which types are most effective in improving local
awareness?
1) Motivation: Local information aids LLMs in code generation by offering awareness of local contextual details. We
extract and organize four types of Local-Aware Knowledge
from the local module: local functions, class instance attributes, local module FQNs, and module variables. These
knowledge types offer diverse perspectives on the context
of the local module. Our goal is to assess whether localaware knowledge genuinely enhances LLMs’ ability to reuse
local functions in code generation. Additionally, we aim to
identify the optimal configuration, determining whether all
four knowledge categories should be available to the model’s
awareness or only specific ones.
2) Experiment Methodology: We use vanilla GPT-3.5Turbo-16k as a baseline, which does not have any local
information in its input. We define four variants of local-aware
methods, as shown in Table I.
• +Local Functions signifies the use of Local Functions
knowledge from the current file context.
• +Class Instance Attributes indicates the use of Class Instance Attributes Knoweldge
• +Module Variables involves using the module Variables
knowledge in the current file context.
• +Local Module FQN employs the fully qualified name
corresponding to the current file.
We run these five different configurations on the benchmark
to obtain code generation results.

When given knowledge of Local Functions, the model
achieves a precision of 0.667, recall of 0.528, F1 score of
0.589, and accuracy of 0.796. This is because Local Function
knowledge allows the model to directly invoke these functions.
Upon additionally providing knowledge of Class Instance
Attributes, the model’s precision, recall, and F1 score improve
by 7.94%, 19.70%, and 14.26%, respectively, compared to
providing only knowledge of Local Functions. This improvement is attributed to the provision of Class Instance Attributes,
which enables the model to better understand how local
functions interact with class variables in the project, leading
to more accurate application of local functions.

Variant
Vallina GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
+Local Functions
GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
+Local Functions
+Class Instance Attributes
GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
+Local Functions
+Class Instance Attributes
+Module Variables
GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
+Local Functions
+Class Instance Attributes
+Module Variables
+Local Module FQN

Precision
N/A

Recall
N/A

F1
N/A

Accuracy
0.721

0.667

0.528

0.589

0.796

0.720

0.632

0.673

0.830

0.728

0.557

0.631

0.820

0.759

0.566

0.649

0.830

3) Result Analysis: Table I shows the reuse awareness
results for code generation using vanilla GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
and four types of Local-Aware Knowledge Configurations.
Vanilla GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k exhibits a precision and recall of 0
as it does not recognize any local functions. Consequently, in
its generated code, new functions are often defined to complete
certain logic, resulting in code redundancy.

However, when we introduce the Module Variables, the
model’s performance drastically declines, particularly with a
11.87% drop in precision. This may be due to the increased
information load resulting from knowledge of Module Variables, which impacts performance. Nevertheless, the model’s
performance is restored and approaches the capabilities of
providing knowledge of Local Functions and Class Instance
Attributes when we subsequently add knowledge of Local
Module FQN. This suggests the existence of subtle interactions
within the knowledge configuration. When the model receives
only one or two key knowledge types, its performance may be
superior to when it receives more information. However, as the
volume of knowledge increases to a certain extent, the model’s
capabilities strengthen, resulting in improved performance.
We ultimately choose the Local-Aware Knowledge setup,
including knowledge of Local Functions and Class Instance
Attributes. This configuration serves as default for the upcoming experiments.

10

Finding 1: The Local-Aware Knowledge significantly
enhances the model’s ability to reuse local functions,
thereby reducing code redundancy. The best
configuration is the combination of Local Functions
and Class Instance Attributes.

B. RQ2: Is Global Module Aware Knowledge effective in
assisting LLMs to utilize global module knowledge during
code generation, and what is the optimal “k” value for
retrieving global functions?
1) Motivation: In this RQ, our goal is to explore the
effectiveness of global-aware information in aiding LLMs
to reuse global functions in code generation. When using
global-aware knowledge, a critical issue arises: if too few
candidate functions are retrieved, the model may lack the
necessary functions to generate code that correctly reuses
global functions. Conversely, retrieving too many candidate
functions can lead to the presence of irrelevant functions,
making it difficult for the model to identify the required
ones. Research shows that irrelevant context can decrease
model efficiency, increase costs, and potentially compromise
performance [33]. Therefore, we aim to identify the optimal
top-k value for retrieving candidate functions to achieve the
best global-aware configuration. Additionally, we conduct an
ablation study to evaluate the effectiveness of the What-if Code
Generator Unit based on the optimal k value.
2) Experiment Methodology: We employ No Global-Aware
as the baseline and this involves providing only Local-Aware
Knowledge without Global-Aware Knowledge input. To determine the optimal top-k value, we pre-define four variants: k=1,
5, 10, and 15. These values are chosen because larger projects
with more complex call relationships require at least one
global function. A single retrieved global function may not be
sufficient, and some functions may need to call multiple global
functions, so we increase the k value to 5, 10, and 15. This
selection ensures we cover a range of potential requirements,
balancing between too few and too many candidate functions
to maintain model performance and relevance. We run the total
five different configurations on the benchmark to obtain code
generation results. Subsequently, we assess the generated code
using the same method as in section V-A, where each result
is evaluated for whether it uses global functions.
To further evaluate the effectiveness of our What-if Code
Generator Unit, we conduct an experiment using the benchmark, focusing on test cases that call global functions (47 cases
in total). We compare two retrieval methods:
• FunDes: Uses only function descriptions for text similarity
retrieval.
• FunDes+FunCode: Uses function descriptions for text similarity retrieval and the What-If Code Generator to generate
intermediate code snippets for code similarity retrieval.
3) Result Analysis: Table II presents the results obtained
using “No Global-Aware” and four different top-k values for
retrieving global functions. The No Global-Aware has both
precision and recall as 0 because of lacking of global-aware
information as we expected. Consequently, the generated code

TABLE II: Comparison of the Global Reuse Awareness results
obtained for different Top k numbers of retrieved functions to
find the best k value.
Global
Functions of
Different
Top k
No Global-Aware
(k = 0)
k=1
k=5
k=10
k=15

Avg.
Retrieved
Functions

Precision

Recall

F1

Accuracy

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0.843

1.757
8.154
16.031
23.592

0.372
0.518
0.479
0.407

0.533
0.717
0.583
0.583

0.438
0.601
0.526
0.479

0.786
0.851
0.836
0.802

only utilizes local functions to accomplish tasks, and it resorts
to defining new functions for specific logic if local functions
are insufficient. When k=1, the model shows some awareness
of global functions to a certain extent, underlined by the precision and recall as 0.372 and 0.533, respectively. At k=5, the
model’s performance significantly improves, indicating that
the model now has a more comprehensive understanding of
global-aware information. However, when k=10, the model’s
F1 score drops by 12.48%, indicating a substantial reduction
in the model’s ability to reuse global functions. As k rises to
15, the effectiveness of the model decreases further. This is
because the overdosed amount (between 10 to 20 functions) of
functions is retrieved, introducing excessive interference and
hindering accurate reusing.
To further assess the impact of the number of global functions presented to the model, we compute the average number
of retrieved functions, denoted as Avg. Retrieved Functions.
We find that providing the model with around 8 functions
yields the best performance in terms of code reuse, striking a
subtle balance. Thus, we select k=5 as optimal configuration
for subsequent experiments.
To further evaluate the effectiveness of our What-if Code
Generator Unit, we conduct an experiment using the benchmark. The results showed that the FunDes method retrieved
41.5% of global functions, while the FunDes+FunCode
method retrieved 60.6%, representing an almost 20% increase.
This demonstrates that our What-if Code Generator Unit
enhances the Global Function Retrieval Unit by providing
intermediate code for code similarity metrics, thus retrieving
more relevant global functions.
Finding 2: Global-Aware Information significantly
enhances the model’s ability to reuse functions in
other code files in the repository. The optimal
configuration for retrieving global functions is k=5.
The What-if Code Generator Unit helps retrieve more
relevant global functions, further enhancing the Global
Function Retrieval Unit.

C. RQ3: Does Third-Party Library Aware Knowledge significantly impact LLMs’ awareness of available third-party
libraries during code generation?
1) Motivation: In section III-B3, we delve into Third-PartyLibrary Aware information, which helps the model recognize

11

TABLE III: Compare the difference between having ThirdParty-Library Aware and not having it on Third-Party Library
Reuse Awareness and Library Coverage.
3rd-Party-Lib
Awareness
No
Yes

Precision

Recall

F1

Accuracy

0.716
0.935

0.429
0.585

0.536
0.720

0.715
0.825

Library
Coverage
0.875
0.940

pre-installed third-party libraries in the code repository. In this
section, we aim to evaluate the effectiveness of third-partylibrary knowledge.
2) Experiment Methodology: To validate this point, we
compare code generation between with and without thirdparty-library aware information. Only local-aware and globalaware information is fed into the model. Then, we run these
two different configurations on the benchmark to obtain code
generation results. Notably, we introduce the Library Coverage, the percentage of third-party libraries used in the generated code in the third-part-library base, to further elaborate
the extent of reusing.
3) Result Analysis: Table III demonstrates that after incorporating Third-Party-Library Aware Knowledge, the model exhibits significant improvements in precision, recall, F1 score,
and accuracy, with increases of 30.59%, 36.36%, 34.33%,
and 15.38%, respectively. This enhancement can be attributed
to the fact that, with Third-Party-Library Aware information,
the model is suggested to use a specific subset of libraries,
narrowing down its choice range and making it more likely to
generate desired code. Our finding is further proven by that
methods with Third-Party-Library Aware information outperform those without such knowledge in the Library Coverage
metric by 7.43%. However, library coverage does not reach
100% due to occasional instances where the model obstinately
believes that there are no viable libraries in the third-party
repository to implement the code, which could be attributed
to model hallucinations [73], [74], [75]. To mitigate these
hallucinations, one potential approach is to use a reflective
approach [51], [76], [77]. If the model uses a non-pre-installed
library, we can inform the model that the library is not
expected and prompt it to regenerate the code. This process is
repeated until the model uses a pre-installed library. Although
we have not systematically validated this approach due to the
high labeling effort and API token costs, it represents a feasible
method to mitigate model hallucinations.
Finding 3: Third-Party-Library Aware information
significantly improves the model’s ability to utilize
available third-party libraries, reducing risk of
potential compatibility issue.

D. RQ4: What is the overall performance of our A3 CodGen
framework?
1) Motivation: In previous sections, we have individually
verified the effectiveness of local-aware, global-aware, and
third-party-library-aware information. We also explored the
optimal configurations. In this section, we aim to integrally

validate the effectiveness of our A3 -CodGen framework from
various perspectives. Therefore, we conduct an ablation study
to evaluate A3 -CodGen in terms of local reuse, global reuse,
and third-party reuse. Additionally, as more powerful models
are released, we aim to compare the performance of A3 CodGen across different foundation models.
2) Experiment Methodology: We first compare our A3 CodGen with three baselines using the GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
model [45]: vanilla ChatGPT, A1 Generation (Local-Aware),
and A2 Generation (Local-Aware and Global-Aware). Then, to
investigate whether performance improvements are significant
with enhanced model capabilities, we use the latest LLM
model, GPT-4o [78], as the foundation model for A3 -CodGen
and compare its performance against GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k. We
evaluate our framework using four metrics: reuse awareness,
reuse correctness, library coverage, and lines of code (LOC).
The F1 score serves as a comprehensive measure of reuse
awareness. Notably, a lower LOC signifies more concise code.
3) Result Analysis: Upon evaluating the awareness aspect,
as shown in Table IV, A3 -CodGen based on GPT-3.5-Turbo16k demonstrates excellence in local reuse, global reuse,
and third-party library reuse. This underscores the effective
assistance provided by the three categories of repository-aware
knowledge in enabling the model to be cognizant of repository
information during code generation.
In terms of correctness, we observe that Local Reuse Correctness is optimal for A1 Generation (Local-Aware), Global
Reuse Correctness is best for A2 Generation (Local-Aware and
Global-Aware), and Third-Party Library Reuse Correctness is
highest for A3 -CodGen. This suggests that increasing input
knowledge may influence the model’s performance in specific
reuse scenarios. Nevertheless, A3 -CodGen exhibits only a
slight difference from the baseline in local reuse and global
reuse correctness (0.003-0.015). Despite this minor difference
in correctness metrics and its superior performance in other
aspects, A3 -CodGen demonstrates robust overall performance
in local reuse, global reuse, and third-party library reuse.
Looking at the Library Coverage, A3 -CodGen achieves
near-perfect performance with a score of 0.940, signifying
its ability to effectively reuse pre-installed libraries and avoid
compatibility issues such as “ModuleNotFoundError: No module named xxx.” Furthermore, the framework consistently generates code with an optimal number of lines (LOC), indicating
its capability to produce concise and efficient code.
By examining the last two columns (Table IV) of A3 CodGen with GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k and GPT-4o, we observe
significant improvements in local reuse, global reuse, and
third-party library reuse for GPT-4o compared to GPT-3.5Turbo-16k. This demonstrates that the same prompts achieve
better performance as the foundation model’s capabilities
improve. Thus, our A3 -CodGen’s performance enhances with
the increased ability of the foundation model. More powerful
foundation models in future will lead to even better results.
However, the code generated by A3 -CodGen based on GPT-4o
is slightly more complex, with an average LOC increase of one
line, compared to GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k. This is because GPT4o considers more logical coherence between code segments,
resulting in slightly more complex code. Nonetheless, the

12

TABLE IV: Comparison of the overall effect of the framework with ablation baselines using GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k for A1 CodGen, A2 -CodGen, and A3 -CodGen configurations, and comparing A3 -CodGen with GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k and GPT-4o.
Metrics
Awareness (F1)
Local
Correctness (F1)
Reuse
Awareness (F1)
Global
Reuse
Correctness (F1)
Awareness (F1)
3rd-Party
Library
Correctness (F1)
Reuse
Library Coverage
Avg Line of Code (LOC)

Vanilla
GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
0.635
0.644
0.786
16.308

A1 -CodGen
(GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k)
0.673
0.675
N/A
N/A
0.652
0.734
0.863
16.507

generated code remains more concise than that produced by
Vanilla GPT-based code generation.
Finding 4:
A3 -CodeGen framework excels in
awaring three types of code repository knowledge,
resulting in an excellent performance in terms of
local reuse, global reuse, and third-party library
reuse. Thanks to its outstanding reuse capabilities,
our framework can generate concise code that aligns
with the code repository’s working environment.
Additionally, A3 -CodGen’s performance improves
with the increased capabilities of the foundation
model.

E. RQ5: How does A3 CodGen framework compare to GitHub
Copilot?
1) Motivation: Given advancements in AI-driven code generation, it is essential to compare our A3 -CodGen framework
with leading tools like GitHub Copilot [9]. GitHub Copilot
generates code by leveraging local and global contextual information from neighboring tabs,2 similar to our context-aware
mechanisms. If Copilot can outperform our approach, further
development of our method may be unnecessary. However, if
it cannot, our goal is to identify the limitations in Copilot’s
design for collecting context and explore how to enhance its
code reuse capabilities using insights from our framework.
2) Experiment Methodology: For each function in the
benchmark dataset, we locate the function within the repository using the repository name and fully qualified name,
then remove the function code and the corresponding import
statements. We provide the function’s comment and definition
to trigger GitHub Copilot to generate the code by pressing the
‘tab’ key. To assist Copilot in generating third-party library
imports, we add a comment #generate import statements if
necessary:. If Copilot makes no suggestion, it indicates no
import statements are needed. We retain all necessary local
functions that could be reused within the function. Finally, we
used the same labeling method mentioned in Section IV-C to
label the generated code. The GitHub Copilot plugin version in
this experiment is 1.5.15.6094, and we disable the auto-update
in settings. We compare A3 -CodGen with GitHub CoPilot in
2 https://github.blog/ai-and-ml/github-copilot/how-github-copilot-is-gettingbetter-at-understanding-your-code/

A2 -CodGen
(GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k)
0.673
0.645
0.601
0.611
0.536
0.735
0.875
12.598

1.0
0.8 .790

A3 -CodGen
(GPT-3.5-Turbo-16k)
0.694
0.632
0.606
0.591
0.720
0.852
0.940
12.804

GitHub CoPilot
A³-CodGen (GPT-4o)

.857 .879
.718

.701

.898

A3 -CodGen
(GPT-4o)
0.718
0.879
0.701
0.676
0.898
0.894
0.976
13.885

.827

.894 .918

.976

.676 .694

0.6
0.4

.447

0.2

.136

0.0

Local
Local
Global
Global
3rd-Party 3rd-Party 3rd-Party
Reuse
Reuse
Reuse
Reuse
Library
Library
Library
(Awareness) (Correctness) (Awareness) (Correctness) Reuse
Reuse
Coverage
(Awareness) (Correctness)

Fig. 5: Comparison between GitHub CoPilot and A3 -CodGen.

terms of local reuse, global reuse, and third-party library reuse.
We use the RepoEval dataset mentioned in Section IV-B2.
3) Result Analysis: To evaluate the statistical significance
of the differences between A3 -CodGen and CoPilot, we conduct Welch’s t-test [79] with a significance threshold of p <
0.05. The p-values for local reuse awareness and correctness
are 0.0696 and 0.5590, indicating no significant difference.
For global reuse awareness and correctness, the p-values
are 0.0144 and 1.46e-06, and for third-party library reuse
awareness, correctness, and coverage, the p-values are 1.39e11, 0.0231, and 0.0176, indicating significant differences.
Fig. 5 compares GitHub Copilot and A3 -CodGen. For local
reuse, GitHub CoPilot performs excellently with an F1 score of
0.790 for local reuse awareness, while A3 -CodGen achieves an
F1 score of 0.718. This is because CoPilot reviews all working
context details (including function definitions, function code,
and descriptions) when generating the code. In terms of
local reuse correctness, A3 -CodGen reaches an F1 score of
0.879, slightly better than GitHub CoPilot’s 0.857, due to our
structured approach to local knowledge.
However, for global reuse awareness and correctness, CoPilot’s performance is suboptimal, with F1 scores of 0.447
and 0.136, respectively. CoPilot’s workflow, although capable
of utilizing neighboring tabs’ context, struggles with global
function calls as necessary global functions might exist in
unopened tabs. Opening all repository tabs is impractical, and
CoPilot does not structure information for completion, leading
to chaotic context. In contrast, A3 -CodGen retrieves relevant
global functions and structures them, facilitating easier and
more accurate reuse. For third-party library reuse, A3 -CodGen

13

outperforms CoPilot in awareness, correctness, and coverage.
A3 -CodGen helps the model to be aware of all pre-installed
libraries, whereas GitHub CoPilot randomly uses third-party
libraries. While CoPilot excels in local information reuse, it
lacks in global functions and third-party libraries reuse.
Our method has potential to enhance Copilot by using
knowledge retrieval to fetch relevant global functions and
library information from the repository, enabling repositoryaware code generation. For instance, Copilot’s limitations can
be mitigated by incorporating interpreter information from the
compiler to help Copilot become aware of third-party libraries.
Additionally, using global function retrieval methods can assist
Copilot in reusing functions from other code files, not just
from neighboring tabs. Structuring the information before
passing it to Copilot, rather than providing all information
together, may also improve performance.
Finding 5: GitHub CoPilot excels in local information
reuse, but its global and third-party library reuse is
suboptimal. A3 -CodGen performs comparably
to CoPilot in local reuse while significantly
outperforming in global and third-party library
reuse due to structured knowledge retrieval. Our
A3 -CodGen can potentially enhance AI-assistant tools
like GitHub CoPilot for better code generation.

C. Dataset Construction for Context Aware Code Generation
1) Benchmark Representativeness: Experiments use 29
meticulously selected Python code repositories, emphasizing
high quality indicated by stars and branches, while avoiding
data leaks. These repositories collectively represent the Python
programming ecosystem. Labeling all functions is highly
labor-intensive. Therefore, as described in Section IV-B2, we
perform sampling to ensure the estimated accuracy within the
sample remains within a 0.05 error range while including functions from each code repository to ensure representativeness,
with an average of 13.2 functions per repository.
2) Benchmark Construction for Different Contexts: In this
paper, we validate the model’s awareness of local functions,
global functions, and third-party libraries. Future studies could
include a more diverse range of repositories to test the framework’s effectiveness in different contexts, such as awareness
of classes, inherited functions, and variables. The dataset
construction method can follow the approach in Section IV-B2,
where we first label functions to create a benchmark, then
evaluate the generated code by predicting labels, and finally
calculate reuse awareness and correctness.
In the future, we will maintain and update this dataset, providing the community with a valuable resource for evaluating
repository-aware code generation.
D. Threats to Validity

VI. D ISCUSSION
A. New Paradigm for Code Generation Tasks
Code generation tasks have traditionally focused on automating code production for specific requirements, with advancements like GitHub CoPilot and ChatGPT mastering this
task. However, real-world code generation extends beyond
meeting requirements; it requires generating code aligned
with project-specific needs and leveraging existing knowledge
for improved readability, maintainability, and practicability.
Therefore, we hope this work sheds a light on this emerging
but significant code generation topic: generating context-aware
code that is compatible with the working environment.
B. Knowledge Engineering for Code Generation
LLMs are sensitive to prompts and well-designed prompts
are decisive in obtaining high-quality results [80], [81], [82].
Either unorganized or too lengthy prompts are impractical.
Instead, it is advisable to extract semantic-enriched knowledge
from the code repository to guide the model to directional
generate code. However, how to selectively fuse the different
types of knowledge presents a challenge, potentially impacting
the model’s awareness of different knowledge types. In Section V-A3, we find that providing diverse information does
not necessarily improve model performance. Meanwhile, in
section V-D, we find that providing the model with global
awareness and third-party library information unexpectedly enhances its ability to reuse local functions. This underscores the
interaction of diverse code knowledge types and stresses the
significance of efficiently mining and utilizing code knowledge
in future studies.

The threats to validity of this paper lies in the following
aspects.
1) Subjective Labeling: Our study involves manual labeling, introducing subjectivity in annotations. We mitigate
this by engaging two professional developers for labeling,
resolving any instances with ambiguous labels to establish
a reliable ground truth. The dataset is public for community
validation [19].
2) Library Dependencies Control: Due to the complexity
of library dependencies, constructing all 29 repository library
dependencies is challenging. Thus, we do not consider the
library version for A3 code generation in our experiments.
However, users can feasibly extract third-party libraries and
generate code using the ‘pip list’ command or by checking
the Python Interpreter in their environment to specify specific
versions of libraries, as mentioned in Section III-A2.
3) Generalizing the A3-CodGen Framework to Other Programming Languages: While the experiments in this paper
are conducted on Python code repositories, our A3 -CodGen
framework is not limited to Python. To adapt it to another
language, such as Java, developers need to use languagespecific program analysis tools (e.g., Spoon [83] for Java)
for the Repository Knowledge Base Construction. This involves extracting relevant repository knowledge, such as signatures and source code. Other steps, including repositoryaware knowledge retrieval and A3 code generation, remain
unchanged. Although constructing the knowledge base may
require additional engineering effort, it does not involve new
scientific innovations. It simply requires following our outlined
approach using the appropriate program analysis tools for the
specific language.

14

VII. R ELATED W ORK
Code generation tasks is about creating source code from
provided natural language descriptions or requirements, which
has been a longstanding focal point in SE research.
Repository-Level Code Completion. Repository-level
code completion is gaining traction over traditional functionlevel completion [84], [38], [36], [85]. Shrivastava et al.
generated example-specific prompts using a prompt proposal
classifier [84] and further proposed RepoFusion to incorporate
relevant repository context by training code models [38]. In
addition, Ding et al. [36] proposed a cross-file context finder
tool, named CCFinder, which constructs a project context
graph and retrieves the most relevant cross-file context based
on local import statements. RepoCoder [85] retrieved similar
code snippets from the repository as part of a prompt and
proposes an iterative retrieval-generation paradigm. This novel
strategy bridged the gap between the retrieved context and the
intended target through an interactive process.
Retrieval Augmented Code Generation. Retrieval Augmented Code Generation (RACG) [86], [82], [87], [88] represents an emerging and promising area of research that
combines the strengths of retrieval-based methods with code
generation techniques. Hayati et al.[82] introduced RECODE,
the first model to integrate information retrieval into code generation. Parvez et al. [87] proposed the REDCODER, which
utilizes retrieval to enhance the input of the generation model,
aiming to maximize the utilization of additional information.
Drain et al. [86] retrieve template functions from GitHub
and relevant answers from Stack Overflow to improve code
generation. Zhou et al. [88] proposed Docprompting, which
retrieve relevant APIs from documents and add them into
prompts to improve code generation. Zan et al. [89] proposed
CodeGenAPI, which retrieve private APIs from documents
to improve code generation. The APIRetriever module of
CodeGenAPI and our approach both focus on API recommendation. However, CodeGenAPI directly retrieves APIs from
documentation and cannot effectively handle high-level tasks
that require combinations of APIs.
Code Completion Evaluation. LLM-based code completion and program synthesis methods provide unprecedented
convenience, however researcher also question the actual performance under the mirage from different perspectives [58],
[59], [34], [60], [16]. Yuan et al. evaluated 10 open-source
instructed LLMs on four representative code comprehension
and generation tasks [58]. Liu et al. proposed EvalPlus, a code
synthesis benchmarking framework, to rigorously evaluate the
functional correctness of LLM-synthesized code in function
level [59] . In a more challenging code generation scenario,
i.e., class-level code generation, Du et al. manually constructed
the first class-level code generation benchmark ClassEval of
100 class-level Python code generation tasks [34]. In addition,
Ouyang et al. conducted an empirical study to demonstrate
that non-determinism in code generation tasks [60]. Yu et al.
proposed a benchmark named CoderEval, which can be used
to assess the performance of models against pragmatic code
generation beyond just generating standalone functions [16].

VIII. C ONCLUSION AND F UTURE W ORK
Code generation within code repositories often necessitates
comprehensive knowledge of the entire repository context.
Existing techniques often lack such a holistic understanding
of code repository knowledge, which is crucial for effective
code generation. In this paper, we introduce the A3 -CodGen
framework, which is designed to construct, mine, and unify
three essential types of code repository knowledge: localaware, global-aware, and third-party-library-aware knowledge.
To validate the effectiveness of these knowledge types, we
conducted benchmark experiments and identified optimal configurations for their utilization. The results demonstrate that
the A3 -CodGen framework significantly enhances the ability
of LLMs to fully utilize local, global, and third-party library
information. This results in the generation of concise, highquality code. In the future, we plan to expand the applicability
of our framework to multiple programming languages. Furthermore, we aim to enhance our knowledge utilization methods
to enable LLMs to become more aware of various types of
code knowledge within code repositories.
R EFERENCES
[1] Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shao Kun Deng, Shengyu Fu, and Neel Sundaresan. Intellicode compose: Code generation using transformer. In
Proceedings of the 28th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software
Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
Engineering, pages 1433–1443, 2020.
[2] Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno,
Agustin Dal Lago, et al. Competition-level code generation with
alphacode. Science, 378(6624):1092–1097, 2022.
[3] Markus Puschel, José MF Moura, Jeremy R Johnson, David Padua,
Manuela M Veloso, Bryan W Singer, Jianxin Xiong, Franz Franchetti,
Aca Gacic, Yevgen Voronenko, et al. Spiral: Code generation for dsp
transforms. Proceedings of the IEEE, 93(2):232–275, 2005.
[4] Bei Chen, Fengji Zhang, Anh Nguyen, Daoguang Zan, Zeqi Lin, JianGuang Lou, and Weizhu Chen. Codet: Code generation with generated
tests. arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.10397, 2022.
[5] Zeyu Sun, Qihao Zhu, Yingfei Xiong, Yican Sun, Lili Mou, and
Lu Zhang. Treegen: A tree-based transformer architecture for code
generation. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, 2020.
[6] Marı́a N Moreno Garcı́a, Isabel Ramos Román, Francisco J Garcı́a
Peñalvo, and Miguel Toro Bonilla. An association rule mining method
for estimating the impact of project management policies on software
quality, development time and effort. Expert Systems with Applications,
34(1):522–529, 2008.
[7] Michael A Cusumano and David B Yoffie. Software development on
internet time. Computer, 32(10):60–69, 1999.
[8] Available:https://chat.openai.com/. Chatgpt. [Online], 2022.
[9] Available:https://copilot.github.com/. ”github copilot. your ai pair programmer”. [Online], 2021.
[10] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde
de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas
Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. Evaluating large language models trained
on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374, 2021.
[11] Matteo Ciniselli, Luca Pascarella, Emad Aghajani, Simone Scalabrino,
Rocco Oliveto, and Gabriele Bavota. Source code recommender systems:
The practitioners’ perspective. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04098, 2023.
[12] Mingwei Liu, Tianyong Yang, Yiling Lou, Xueying Du, Ying Wang,
and Xin Peng. Codegen4libs: A two-stage approach for library-oriented
code generation. 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on
Automated Software Engineering (ASE), pages 434–445, 2023.
[13] Daoguang Zan, Bei Chen, Dejian Yang, Zeqi Lin, Minsu Kim, Bei Guan,
Yongji Wang, Weizhu Chen, and Jian-Guang Lou. Cert: Continual pretraining on sketches for library-oriented code generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2206.06888, 2022.

15

[14] Tianshi Li, Elijah B Neundorfer, Yuvraj Agarwal, and Jason I Hong.
Honeysuckle: Annotation-guided code generation of in-app privacy
notices. Proceedings of the ACM on Interactive, Mobile, Wearable and
Ubiquitous Technologies, 5(3):1–27, 2021.
[15] Daoguang Zan, Bei Chen, Yongshun Gong, Junzhi Cao, Fengji Zhang,
Bingchao Wu, Bei Guan, Yilong Yin, and Yongji Wang. Private-libraryoriented code generation with large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.15370, 2023.
[16] Hao Yu, Bo Shen, Dezhi Ran, Jiaxin Zhang, Qi Zhang, Yuchi Ma,
Guangtai Liang, Ying Li, Tao Xie, and Qianxiang Wang. Codereval:
A benchmark of pragmatic code generation with generative pre-trained
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.00288, 2023.
[17] Yan Zhuang, Qi Liu, Yuting Ning, Weizhe Huang, Rui Lv, Zhenya
Huang, Guanhao Zhao, Zheng Zhang, Qingyang Mao, Shijin Wang, et al.
Efficiently measuring the cognitive ability of llms: An adaptive testing
perspective. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.10512, 2023.
[18] D Gifany, IS Amiri, M Ranjbar, and J Ali. Logic codes generation and
transmission using an encoding-decoding system. International Journal
of Advances in Engineering & Technology, 5(2):37, 2013.
[19] Our dataset and repository. https://github.com/Dianshu-Liao/AAACode-Generation-Framework-for-Code-Repository-Local-AwareGlobal-Aware-Third-Party-Aware.
[20] Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq Joty, and Steven CH Hoi. Codet5:
Identifier-aware unified pre-trained encoder-decoder models for code
understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.00859, 2021.
[21] Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng,
Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing Qin, Ting Liu, Daxin Jiang, et al.
Codebert: A pre-trained model for programming and natural languages.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.08155, 2020.
[22] Daya Guo, Shuo Ren, Shuai Lu, Zhangyin Feng, Duyu Tang, Shujie
Liu, Long Zhou, Nan Duan, Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al.
Graphcodebert: Pre-training code representations with data flow. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2009.08366, 2020.
[23] Erik Nijkamp, Bo Pang, Hiroaki Hayashi, Lifu Tu, Haiquan Wang,
Yingbo Zhou, Silvio Savarese, and Caiming Xiong. Codegen: An open
large language model for code with multi-turn program synthesis. In
International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
[24] Daniel Fried, Armen Aghajanyan, Jessy Lin, Sida I. Wang, Eric Wallace,
Freda Shi, Ruiqi Zhong, Wen tau Yih, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Mike
Lewis. Incoder: A generative model for code infilling and synthesis.
ArXiv, abs/2204.05999, 2022.
[25] Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Shuo Ren, Junjie Huang, Alexey Svyatkovskiy,
Ambrosio Blanco, Colin B. Clement, Dawn Drain, Daxin Jiang, Duyu
Tang, Ge Li, Lidong Zhou, Linjun Shou, Long Zhou, Michele Tufano,
Ming Gong, Ming Zhou, Nan Duan, Neel Sundaresan, Shao Kun Deng,
Shengyu Fu, and Shujie Liu. Codexglue: A machine learning benchmark
dataset for code understanding and generation. ArXiv, abs/2102.04664,
2021.
[26] Wannita Takerngsaksiri, Chakkrit Kla Tantithamthavorn, and Yuankui
Li. Syntax-aware on-the-fly code completion. ArXiv, abs/2211.04673,
2022.
[27] Frank F. Xu, Uri Alon, Graham Neubig, and Vincent J. Hellendoorn.
A systematic evaluation of large language models of code. Proceedings of the 6th ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on Machine
Programming, 2022.
[28] Qinkai Zheng, Xiao Xia, Xu Zou, Yuxiao Dong, Shanshan Wang, Yufei
Xue, Zi-Yuan Wang, Lei Shen, Andi Wang, Yang Li, Teng Su, Zhilin
Yang, and Jie Tang. Codegeex: A pre-trained model for code generation
with multilingual evaluations on humaneval-x. ArXiv, abs/2303.17568,
2023.
[29] Priyan Vaithilingam, Tianyi Zhang, and Elena L Glassman. Expectation
vs. experience: Evaluating the usability of code generation tools powered
by large language models. In Chi conference on human factors in
computing systems extended abstracts, pages 1–7, 2022.
[30] JetBrains.
Code
completion
in
pycharm.
https://www.jetbrains.com/help/pycharm/auto-completing-code.html,
2023.
[31] Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq R. Joty, and Steven C. H. Hoi. Codet5:
Identifier-aware unified pre-trained encoder-decoder models for code
understanding and generation. ArXiv, abs/2109.00859, 2021.
[32] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report. ArXiv, 2023.
[33] Freda Shi, Xinyun Chen, Kanishka Misra, Nathan Scales, David Dohan, Ed Huai hsin Chi, Nathanael Scharli, and Denny Zhou. Large
language models can be easily distracted by irrelevant context. ArXiv,
abs/2302.00093, 2023.

[34] Xueying Du, Mingwei Liu, Kaixin Wang, Hanlin Wang, Junwei Liu,
Yixuan Chen, Jiayi Feng, Chaofeng Sha, Xin Peng, and Yiling Lou.
Classeval: A manually-crafted benchmark for evaluating llms on classlevel code generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.01861, 2023.
[35] Yupeng Chang, Xu Wang, Jindong Wang, Yuan Wu, Kaijie Zhu, Hao
Chen, Linyi Yang, Xiaoyuan Yi, Cunxiang Wang, Yidong Wang, et al.
A survey on evaluation of large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.03109, 2023.
[36] Yangruibo Ding, Zijian Wang, Wasi Uddin Ahmad, Murali Krishna
Ramanathan, Ramesh Nallapati, Parminder Bhatia, Dan Roth, and Bing
Xiang. Cocomic: Code completion by jointly modeling in-file and crossfile context. ArXiv, abs/2212.10007, 2022.
[37] Hengzhi Pei, Jinman Zhao, Leonard Lausen, Sheng Zha, and George
Karypis. Better context makes better code language models: A case
study on function call argument completion. ArXiv, abs/2306.00381,
2023.
[38] Disha Shrivastava, Denis Kocetkov, Harm de Vries, Dzmitry Bahdanau,
and Torsten Scholak. Repofusion: Training code models to understand
your repository. ArXiv, abs/2306.10998, 2023.
[39] Erin M. Quist, Shambhunath Choudhary, Richard Lang, Debra A.
Tokarz, Mark James Hoenerhoff, Jonathan Nagel, and Jeffrey I. Everitt.
Proceedings of the 2022 national toxicology program satellite symposium. Toxicologic Pathology, 50:836 – 857, 2022.
[40] Joshua Turner. The structure of modular program. Commun. ACM,
23:272–277, 1980.
[41] Jian Zhang, Xu Wang, Hongyu Zhang, Hailong Sun, Kaixuan Wang,
and Xudong Liu. A novel neural source code representation based on
abstract syntax tree. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference
on Software Engineering (ICSE), pages 783–794. IEEE, 2019.
[42] Qing Huang, Dianshu Liao, Zhenchang Xing, Zhiqiang Yuan, Qinghua
Lu, Xiwei Xu, and Jiaxing Lu. Se factual knowledge in frozen giant
code model: A study on fqn and its retrieval. ArXiv, abs/2212.08221,
2022.
[43] Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared
Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish
Sastry, Amanda Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss, Gretchen
Krueger, T. J. Henighan, Rewon Child, Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M.
Ziegler, Jeff Wu, Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen,
Eric Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess, Jack Clark,
Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish, Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever,
and Dario Amodei. Language models are few-shot learners. ArXiv,
abs/2005.14165, 2020.
[44] Seonghyeon Ye, Hyeonbin Hwang, Sohee Yang, Hyeongu Yun, Yireun
Kim, and Minjoon Seo. In-context instruction learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.14691, 2023.
[45] OpenAI. Gpt-3.5-turbo-16k. https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/
gpt-3-5, note = Accessed: 2023.9, 2023.
[46] Qing Huang, Yanbang Sun, Zhenchang Xing, Mingming Yu, Xiwei Xu,
and Qinghua Lu. Api entity and relation joint extraction from text via
dynamic prompt-tuned language model. ACM Transactions on Software
Engineering and Methodology, 2023.
[47] Qing Huang, Zhiqiang Yuan, Zhenchang Xing, Xiwei Xu, Liming Zhu,
and Qinghua Lu. Prompt-tuned code language model as a neural knowledge base for type inference in statically-typed partial code. Proceedings
of the 37th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software
Engineering, 2022.
[48] Daoguang Zan, Bei Chen, Dejian Yang, Zeqi Lin, Minsu Kim, Bei Guan,
Yongji Wang, Weizhu Chen, and Jian-Guang Lou. Cert: Continual pretraining on sketches for library-oriented code generation. In International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2022.
[49] Mingwei Liu, Tianyong Yang, Yiling Lou, Xueying Du, Ying Wang,
and Xin Peng. Codegen4libs: A two-stage approach for library-oriented
code generation. 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on
Automated Software Engineering (ASE), pages 434–445, 2023.
[50] Zexiong Ma, Shengnan An, Bing Xie, and Zeqi Lin. Compositional api
recommendation for library-oriented code generation. 2024 IEEE/ACM
32nd International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC),
pages 87–98, 2024.
[51] Xiaoxue Ren, Xinyuan Ye, Dehai Zhao, Zhenchang Xing, and Xiaohu
Yang. From misuse to mastery: Enhancing code generation with
knowledge-driven ai chaining. 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International
Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE), pages 976–987,
2023.
[52] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Fei Xia,
Ed Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou, et al. Chain-of-thought prompting
elicits reasoning in large language models. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:24824–24837, 2022.

16

[53] Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc Le, Ed Chi, Sharan
Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. Self-consistency
improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.11171, 2022.
[54] Qing Lyu, Shreya Havaldar, Adam Stein, Li Zhang, Delip Rao, Eric
Wong, Marianna Apidianaki, and Chris Callison-Burch. Faithful chainof-thought reasoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.13379, 2023.
[55] OpenAI.
https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/embeddings/
what-are-embeddings, note = Accessed: 2023.9, 2023.
[56] Andrew Gao. Vec2vec: A compact neural network approach for
transforming text embeddings with high fidelity. ArXiv, abs/2306.12689,
2023.
[57] Michael Günther, Jackmin Ong, Isabelle Mohr, Alaeddine Abdessalem,
Tanguy Abel, Mohammad Kalim Akram, Susana Guzman, Georgios
Mastrapas, Saba Sturua, Bo Wang, Maximilian Werk, Nan Wang,
and Han Xiao. Jina embeddings 2: 8192-token general-purpose text
embeddings for long documents. ArXiv, abs/2310.19923, 2023.
[58] Zhiqiang Yuan, Junwei Liu, Qiancheng Zi, Mingwei Liu, Xin Peng, and
Yiling Lou. Evaluating instruction-tuned large language models on code
comprehension and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.01240, 2023.
[59] Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and Lingming Zhang.
Is your code generated by chatgpt really correct? rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.01210, 2023.
[60] Shuyin Ouyang, Jie M Zhang, Mark Harman, and Meng Wang. Llm
is like a box of chocolates: the non-determinism of chatgpt in code
generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.02828, 2023.
[61] Alexandre Matton, Tom Sherborne, Dennis Aumiller, Elena Tommasone, Milad Alizadeh, Jingyi He, Raymond Ma, Maxime Voisin, Ellen
Gilsenan-McMahon, and Matthias Gall’e. On leakage of code generation
evaluation datasets. ArXiv, abs/2407.07565, 2024.
[62] Zhou Yang, Zhipeng Zhao, Chenyu Wang, Jieke Shi, Dongsun Kim,
Donggyun Han, and David Lo. Unveiling memorization in code
models. 2024 IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software
Engineering (ICSE), pages 867–879, 2023.
[63] Rosalia Tufano, Simone Masiero, Antonio Mastropaolo, Luca Pascarella,
Denys Poshyvanyk, and Gabriele Bavota. Using pre-trained models
to boost code review automation. 2022 IEEE/ACM 44th International
Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pages 2291–2302, 2022.
[64] Antonio Mastropaolo, Luca Pascarella, and Gabriele Bavota. Using deep
learning to generate complete log statements. 2022 IEEE/ACM 44th
International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pages 2279–
2290, 2022.
[65] Mahmoud Alfadel, Diego Elias Costa, and Emad Shihab. Empirical
analysis of security vulnerabilities in python packages. Empirical
Software Engineering, 28:1–37, 2021.
[66] Pycallgraph.
https://github.com/gak/pycallgraph, note = Accessed:
2023.9, 2023.
[67] Pyan. https://github.com/davidfraser/pyan, note = Accessed: 2023.9,
2023.
[68] Ravindra
Pal
Singh
and
Naurang
Singh
Mangat.
Elements
of
survey
sampling.
Available:https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:117789735, 1996.
[69] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu:
a method for automatic evaluation of machine translation. In Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2002.
[70] Chin-Yew Lin. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics, 2004.

[71] Satanjeev Banerjee and Alon Lavie. Meteor: An automatic metric for
mt evaluation with improved correlation with human judgments. In
IEEvaluation@ACL, 2005.
[72] J Richard Landis and Gary G. Koch. An application of hierarchical
kappa-type statistics in the assessment of majority agreement among
multiple observers. Biometrics, 33 2:363–74, 1977.
[73] Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu,
Etsuko Ishii, Ye Jin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. Survey of
hallucination in natural language generation. ACM Computing Surveys,
55(12):1–38, 2023.
[74] Muru Zhang, Ofir Press, William Merrill, Alisa Liu, and Noah A
Smith. How language model hallucinations can snowball. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.13534, 2023.
[75] Stephen Roller, Emily Dinan, Naman Goyal, Da Ju, Mary Williamson,
Yinhan Liu, Jing Xu, Myle Ott, Eric Michael Smith, Y-Lan Boureau,
and Jason Weston. Recipes for building an open-domain chatbot. In
Proceedings of the 16th Conference of the European Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Main Volume, pages 300–
325, Online, April 2021. Association for Computational Linguistics.
[76] Meixue Si, Shidong Pan, Dianshu Liao, Xiaoyu Sun, Zhenyuan Tao,
Wenchang Shi, and Zhenchang Xing. A solution toward transparent
and practical ai regulation: Privacy nutrition labels for open-source
generative ai-based applications. Arxiv, 2024.
[77] Noah Shinn, Federico Cassano, Beck Labash, Ashwin Gopinath, Karthik
Narasimhan, and Shunyu Yao. Reflexion: language agents with verbal
reinforcement learning. In Neural Information Processing Systems,
2023.
[78] OpenAI. Gpt-4o. https://openai.com/index/hello-gpt-4o/, 2024.
[79] Welch Bl. The generalization of ‘student’s’ problem when several
different population varlances are involved. Biometrika, 34:28–35, 1947.
[80] Chen Yang, Yan Liu, and Changqing Yin. Recent advances in intelligent
source code generation: A survey on natural language based studies.
Entropy, 23, 2021.
[81] Jiho Shin and Jaechang Nam. A survey of automatic code generation
fromnatural language. J. Inf. Process. Syst., 17:537–555, 2021.
[82] Shirley Anugrah Hayati, Raphaël Olivier, Pravalika Avvaru, Pengcheng
Yin, Anthony Tomasic, and Graham Neubig. Retrieval-based neural
code generation. ArXiv, abs/1808.10025, 2018.
[83] Renaud Pawlak, Martin Monperrus, Nicolas Petitprez, Carlos Noguera,
and Lionel Seinturier. Spoon: A Library for Implementing Analyses
and Transformations of Java Source Code. Software: Practice and
Experience, 46:1155–1179, 2015.
[84] Disha Shrivastava, H. Larochelle, and Daniel Tarlow. Repositorylevel prompt generation for large language models of code. ArXiv,
abs/2206.12839, 2022.
[85] Fengji Zhang, B. Chen, Yue Zhang, Jin Liu, Daoguang Zan, Yi Mao,
Jian-Guang Lou, and Weizhu Chen. Repocoder: Repository-level
code completion through iterative retrieval and generation. ArXiv,
abs/2303.12570, 2023.
[86] Dawn Drain, Changran Hu, Chen Wu, Mikhail Breslav, and Neel
Sundaresan. Generating code with the help of retrieved template
functions and stack overflow answers. ArXiv, abs/2104.05310, 2021.
[87] Md. Rizwan Parvez, Wasi Uddin Ahmad, Saikat Chakraborty, Baishakhi
Ray, and Kai-Wei Chang. Retrieval augmented code generation and
summarization. ArXiv, abs/2108.11601, 2021.
[88] Shuyan Zhou, Uri Alon, Frank F. Xu, Zhiruo Wang, Zhengbao Jiang,
and Graham Neubig. Docprompting: Generating code by retrieving the
docs. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
[89] Daoguang Zan, Bei Chen, Zeqi Lin, Bei Guan, Yongji Wang, and JianGuang Lou. When language model meets private library. In Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 2022.

