CodeGRAG: Bridging the Gap between Natural
Language and Programming Language via Graphical
Retrieval Augmented Generation

arXiv:2405.02355v4 [cs.SE] 19 May 2025

Kounianhua Du1 , Jizheng Chen1 , Renting Rui1 , Huacan Chai1 , Lingyue Fu1 ,
Wei Xia2 , Yasheng Wang2 , Ruiming Tang2 , Yong Yu1 , Weinan Zhang1
1
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 2 Huawei Noah’s Ark Lab
Shanghai, China
{kounianhuadu, wnzhang}@sjtu.edu.cn

Abstract
Utilizing large language models to generate codes has shown promising meaning
in software development revolution. Despite the intelligence shown by the large
language models, their specificity in code generation can still be improved due to
the syntactic gap and mismatched vocabulary existing between natural language
and programming languages. In this paper, we propose CodeGRAG, a Graphical
Retrieval Augmented Code Generation framework that bridges the gap between
NL and PL to enhance the performance of LLMs. CodeGRAG builds the graphical
view of code blocks based on the control flow and data flow of them to better
interpret the programming domain knowledge, which can facilitate natural language
based LLMs for better understanding of code syntax and serve as a bridge among
different programming languages. To take the extracted structural knowledge
into the foundation models, we propose 1) a hard meta-graph prompt template to
transform the challenging syntax graph into informative graphical view for tuningfree models and 2) a soft prompting technique that injects the domain knowledge
of programming languages into model parameters via finetuning the models with
the soft signals encoded by GNN expert model. Specifically, two constraints are
designed to improve the alignment and structure expressiveness, contributing to
the informativeness of the single-token-sized external <GraphEmb> for enhanced
code generation. CodeGRAG significantly improves the code generation ability
of LLMs and can even offer performance gain for cross-lingual code generation.
Implementation is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/Code-5970/ .

1

Introduction

In recent years, large language models (LLMs) (Achiam et al., 2023; Touvron et al., 2023) have
shown great impact in various domains. Automated code generation emerges as a captivating frontier
(Zheng et al., 2023; Roziere et al., 2023; Shen et al., 2023), promising to revolutionize software
development by enabling machines to write and optimize code with minimal human intervention.
Code generation involves translating natural language instructions into structured and executable
code in a target programming language. However, syntactic gap and mismatched vocabulary between
natural language (NL) and programming languages (PL) exist, hindering LLM’s performance on
code generation. As illustrated in Figure 1, programming language (marked in blue) contains special
tokens such as “int” or “++” that natural language (marked in yellow) doesn’t possess with the
same physical significance, leading to vocabulary mismatch. Besides, the relations among tokens in
programming languages are often structural, e.g., the complex branching and jumps, whereas natural
Preprint. Under review.

language is arranged simply in sequential manner, leading to syntactic gap. For example, in the
control flow graph of the raw code (marked in pink), two “if” blocks (marked in purple) are adjacent
and are executed sequentially under certain condition, while appearing distant in the raw textual code.
As discussed above, the challenges of enhancing large language models for code-related tasks can be
summarized into two folds.
(C1) Effective representation of programming hints to interpret the inherent logic. Code, unlike
natural language, possesses a well-defined structure that governs its syntax and semantics. This
structure provides valuable information about the relationships between different parts of the code, the
flow of execution, and the overall organization of the functions (Jiang et al., 2021; Guo et al., 2020).
LLMs regard a code block as a sequence of tokens. By ignoring the inherent structure of codes, they
miss out on essential cues that could help them better understand and generate code. Previous RAG
methods (Lu et al., 2022; Su et al., 2024; Zhou et al., 2022) stimulate the code generation abilities
of LLMs by using relevant code snippets or document as hints, failing to well represent the innate
structures.
(C2) Effective ways to digest the programming domain knowledge. In addition
to the well representation of
the programming knowledge,
the ways to inject the knowledge into the NL-based LLMs
is also challenging. The structural representation of codes
and the unfamiliar vocabulary
could be hard to understand,
which poses a challenge to the
capability of the foundation
models.

Programming
Language

Vocabulary Mismatch

Syntactic Gap

for, int, =, <, ++, ...

Complex & Structural

consisting, binary

Easier & Sequential

Natural
Language
Extracted
Graph

Input are two strings a and b consisting only of 1s and 0s. Perform binary XOR
on these inputs and return results also as a string.
string string_xor(string a, string b){
string output="";
for (int i=0;(i<a.length() and i<b.length());i++){
if (i<a.length() and i<b.length()){
if (a[i]== b[i]) output+='0';
else output+='1';}
else{
if (i>=a.length()) output+=b[i];
else output+=a[i];}}
return output;}

Start:
string_xor
range(minlen)
For: i
yes
If: i<minlen
no

Init output,
minlen
If:
a[i]=b[i]

yes
no

If:
i>=len(a)

yes

output
+= '0'
output
+= '1'
output
+= b[i]

no

To solve the above challenges, we propose Code- Figure 1: Illustration of the gap between the programming language
GRAG, a graphical retrieval and the natural language.
augmented generation framework for code generation. For (C1), we propose to interpret the code blocks using the graphical view
composed from data-flow and control-flow of the code block to serve as the programming hints, which
extracts both the semantic level and the logical level information of the code. The composed graphical
view could 1) better capture the innate structural knowledge of codes for NL-based language models
to understand and 2) model the innate function of code blocks that bridge different programming
languages. For (C2), we propose a hard meta-graph prompting technique for tuning-free models and
a soft-prompting technique for tunable models. The hard meta-graph prompt summarizes the overall
information of the extracted graphical view and transforms the challenging and noisy graphical
representation into informative knowledge. The soft-prompting technique injects the programming
domain knowledge into LLMs by tuning them with soft signals from expert GNN-encoded graphical
views, under the regularization of alignment and structure-preserving objectives. After the tuning,
LLMs are capable to well digest the structural graphical views by taking in the soft <GraphEmb> at
single-token cost, avoiding them from the vocabulary mismatch and syntactic gap problems.
The main contributions of the paper can be summarized as follows:
• Identification of the vocabulary mismatch and syntactic gap problems in NL2Code process.
We explain the identified problems with explicit examples and propose CodeGRAG, a novel
graphical retrieval augmented generation framework, to tackle them for enhanced code generation.
• Effective graphical view to inform and stimulate the programming knowledge of LLMs.
We propose an effective graphical view to serve as the programming hints, which offers more
informative knowledge than the raw code block.
• Effective soft prompting technique to inject the programming domain knowledge into LLMs
and help them better digest the programming hints. We propose a soft prompting technique,
which injects the domain knowledge of programming languages into the model parameters via
2

Node Feature
Composed
Syntax Gr aph
Exter nal Code
K nowledge Base

Edge Feature

Gr aphical View

M eta-Gr aph Str ucture
Har d
Gr aphical View

Composed Syntax Gr aph

Data Flow
K nowledge
KDocument
nowledge
K nowledge
Document
Document

Two-Hop Alignment Contr astive L ear ning
NL

Code

Gr aphical
View

Control Flow

Composed
Syntax Gr aph
Exper t GNN

Str ucture Preser ving Contr astive L ear ning

std::vector<int>

Raw Code
K nowledge Prepar ation
Retr ieval Augmented Gener ation
(Soft & Har d)
Ret ur n a s t r i ng c ont ai ni ng s pac e- del i mi t ed
number s s t ar t i ng f r om 0 upt o n i nc l us i v e.
>>> s t r i ng_s equenc e( 0)
" 0"
>> s t r i ng_s equenc e( 5)
0 1 2 3 4 5
#i nc l ude<s t di o. h>
#i nc l ude<s t r i ng>
us i ng names pac e s t d;
s t r i ng s t r i ng_s equenc e( i nt n) {

Gr aphEmb
Soft
Gr aphEmb

target) { .....

Compact

twoSum(std::vector<int>& nums, int

Soft Prompting
Exter nal Code
K nowledge Base

Retr iever

Gr aphical View

I ndex

Har d M eta-Gr aph
Prompt

I NPUT: Task instr uction prompt
Quer y Extr action

Gr aphEmb

Gener al Pur pose L L M

#include<stdio.h>
#include<math.h>
#include<string>
using namespace std;
#include<algorithm>
#include<stdlib.h>
string string_sequence(int n){
string out="0";
for (int i=1;i<=n;i++)
out=out+" "+to_string(i);
return out;
}

OUTPUT: Gener ated Code
Gener al Pur pose L L M

Figure 2: Overview of CodeGRAG. (Top) Knowledge Preparation. We extract composed syntax
graphs of external code blocks by composing the control flow and data flow of codes using the
read-write signal, preserving the innate semantic and logical information. The composed graphs are
then abstracted into graphical views as hard knowledge document and embedded into <GraphEmb>s
as soft knowledge document. The <GraphEmb> is encoded by a pretrained GNN expert model
constrained by the alignment and structure preserving objectives. (Bottom) Retrieval Augmented
Generation. We extract query from the task input and retrieve from the external corpus. For tuning
free models, we use the hard graphical view to stimulate the structural programming knowledge of
LLMs for enhanced generation. For tunable models, we use the soft <GraphEmb> and inject the
programming domain knowledge into LLMs parameters via finetuning them with the GNN expert
signals. The expert signals informed LLMs can then produce enhanced generation.
finetuning LLMs with the soft signals of GNN-encoded graphical representations. A two-hop
contrastive objective for alignment along with a graph contrastive objective for structure preserving
are designed to improve the expressiveness of the soft signal.

2

Methodology

2.1

Overview

In this paper, we leverage both generative models and retrieval models to produce results that are
coherent and informed by expert graphical knowledge of the programming language. The overall
process of CodeGRAG is illustrated in Figure 2.
2.2

Graphical Knowledge Base Preparation

To capture both the semantic and the logical information, we represent code blocks by combining
the data flow graph (Aho et al., 2006) and the control flow graph (Allen, 1970) with the read-write
signals (Long et al., 2022), both of them are constructed on the basis of the abstract syntax tree.
Abstract Syntax Tree (AST). An abstract syntax tree (AST) is a tree data structure that represents
the abstract syntactic structure of source code. An AST is constructed by a parser, which reads the
source code and creates a tree of nodes. Each node in the tree represents a syntactic construct in the
source code, such as a statement, an expression, or a declaration. ASTs have good compactness and
can represent the structure of the source code in a clear and concise way.
Data Flow Graph (DFG). The data flow graph (DFG) is a graphical representation of the flow of
data dependencies within a program. It is a directed graph that models how data is transformed and
3

Function Desciption
Checks if given string is a palindrome.

Code Block
#include<stdio.h>
#include<math.h>
#include<string>
using namespace std;
#include<algorithm>
#include<stdlib.h>
bool is_palindrome(string text){
string pr(text.rbegin(),text.rend());
return pr==text;
}

DeclStmtedge0

CXXOperatorCallExpredge1

child

write

UserDefineFun

CXXOperatorCallExpredge2

next

read

Figure 3: Illustration of the extracted composed syntax graph from the code block. The arrows in the
bottom part indicate the names of different edges, which are extracted based on the ASTs.
propagated through different parts of a program. In DFG, nodes are operands and edges indicate data
flows. Two types of edges are considered: 1) operation edges that connect the nodes to be operated
and the nodes that receive the operation results; 2) function edges that indicate data flows for function
calls and returns. These edges connect nodes, including non-temporary operands and temporary
operands, which refer to variables and constants that explicitly exist in the source code, and variables
existing only in execution, respectively.
Control Flow Graph (CFG). The control flow graph (CFG) is a graphical representation of the
flow of control or the sequence of execution within a program. It is a directed graph that models
the control relationships between different parts of a program. Based on compiler principles, we
slightly adjust the design of CFG to better capture the key information of the program. Nodes in CFG
are operations in the source code, including standard operations, function calls and returns. Edges
indicate the execution order of operations.
Composed Syntax Graph. A composed syntax graph composes the data flow graph and the control
flow graph with the read-write flow existing in the code blocks. An illustration of the extracted
composed syntax graph is displayed in Figure 3. Different edge types along with their concrete names
are given in colors. As for the node names, the middle figure displays the concrete types of nodes
(operands) and the right figure displays the properties of nodes.
An illustration of the composed graphical view is in Figure 3. After obtaining the composed syntax
graphs, we use them to inform the LLMs to bridge the gap between NL and PLs, where both the
semantic level and the logic level information are preserved.
2.3

Graphical Retrieval Augmented Generation

In this section, we discuss the ways to effectively utilize the constructed knowledge base.
For the retrieval algorithm, we use CodeT5 to encode the query and corpus, measuring cosine
distances among vectors to obtain the top-1 relevant document as the knowledge content. Since the
focus of our paper is to discuss the representation of the used knowledge content but not the accuracy
of ranking, we keep ranking algorithm the same for all used methods.
For the representation of the retrieved knowledge content, since the composed syntax graph is hard
to understand, we propose 1) a hard meta-graph template to transform the challenging knowledge
into informative graphical view for tuning-free model and 2) a soft prompting technique to tune the
foundation models for their better understanding of the graphical views with the assistance of an
expert GNN model.
2.3.1

Hard Meta-Graph Prompt

The original composed syntax graph of a code block could contain hundreds of nodes and edges. A
full description of it could cost an overly long context, along with the understanding challenge posed
by the long edge lists. Therefore, we propose to use a meta-graph1 to abstract the original graph into
informative graphical view. The abstracted meta-graph consists of the canonical edge types and node
1

https://www.dgl.ai/dgl_docs/generated/dgl.DGLGraph.metagraph.html

4

types, which describes the basic topology of the composed syntax graph (Sun and Han, 2013), with
the textual features obtained from the ASTs contained in the node and edge features.
The template for the meta-graph is displayed as below.
Graph(num_nodes={node_type : #nodes},
num_edges={(src_node_type, edge_type, dst_node_type) : #edges},
metagraph=[(src_node_type, edge_type, dst_node_type)])
Then we use the meta-graph template to transform the retrieved graphical view into digestable
knowledge and insert it into the final prompt for generation. As illustrated in Figure 4 (a), the final
prompt consists of three components: the system prompt illustrated in the blue part, the retrieved
knowledge and hints illustrated in the green part, and the problem (including task description, function
declaration, etc.) illustrated in the yellow part. The three parts are concatenated to be fed into LLMs
for knowledge augmented generation.
System Prompt
Please continue to complete the [lang] function
according to the requirements and function
declarations. You are not allowed to modify the
given code and do the completion only.\n

System Prompt
Please continue to complete the [lang] function
according to the requirements and function
declarations. You are not allowed to modify the
given code and do the completion only.\n

Retr ieved K nowledge
The syntax graph of a similar code might be:\n
[meta graph]
You can refer to the above knowledge to do the
completion. \n

Retr ieved K nowledge
The syntax graph of a similar code is encoded in:\n
<GraphEmb>
You can refer to the above knowledge to do the
completion. \n

Problem
The problem:\n
[problem prompt]

Problem
The problem:\n
[problem prompt]

(a) Har d M eta Gr aph Template

(b) Soft Prompting Template

Figure 4: Prompt templates.
2.3.2

Soft Prompting with the Expert

Directly hard prompt to the LLMs poses a challenge to the digesting capability of the backbone LLMs,
suffering from the vocabulary mismatch and syntactic gap problems. To compress the graphical
knowledge into model parameters and help the backbone LLMs to better understand the programming
language, we propose a soft prompting technique. The overall procedure can be summarized into
expert encoding of graphical views, finetuning with the expert signal, and inference.
We design a graph neural network to preserve the semantic and logical information of code blocks.
(0)
(0)
The representation of each node ni and edge ei are first initialized with vectors corresponding
to the node text and edge text encoded by ϕ1 , which is a specialized coder model trained to align
programming and natural languages. A message passing process is first conducted to fuse the
semantic and structural information into each node representation.
(l)

(l−1)

mij = W(l) (ni

(l−1)

∥eij

),

(1)

(l)
(l−1)
Qj =WQ (l) nj
,
(l)

(l)

(l)

(2)
(l)

Kij = WK (l) mij , Vij = WV (l) mij ,

(3)

(l)
(l) (l)
aij = softmaxi∈N (j) (Qj Kij ),

(4)

(l)
nj =

(l) (l)
aij Vij .
i∈N (j)

X

A global attention-based readout is then applied to obtain the graph representation:
X
L
g=
softmax(fgate (nL
i ))ffeat (ni ).
i

5

(5)

(6)

The expert encoding network is optimized via the contrastive learning based self-supervised training.
A two-hop contrastive learning objective is designed to align the code-NL-PL spaces, while a structure
preserving contrastive learning is conducted to improve the expressiveness of the expert GNN and
avoid the aligning process from being dominated by the NL side.
• Two-Hop Alignment Contrastive Learning. There are two types of alignment to be ensured: 1)
NL-Code (NC) alignment and 2) Code-Graph (CG) alignment.
We define the positive pairs and negative pairs for NC alignment purpose as:
Q
+
V
IN
C = {⟨hi , hi ⟩|i ∈ Dtrain },

(7)

Q
−
V
IN
C = {⟨hi , hj ⟩|i ̸= j, i ∈ Dtrain , j ∈ Dtrain }.

(8)

And we define the positive pairs and negative pairs for CG alignment purpose as:
+
ICG
= {⟨ϕ1 (ci ), ϕ2 (gi )⟩|i ∈ Dtrain },
−
ICG
= {⟨ϕ1 (ci ), ϕ2 (gj )⟩|i ̸= j, i ∈ Dtrain , j ∈ Dtrain }.

(9)
(10)

• Structure Preserving Contrastive Learning. To preserve the structural information of the
graphical views, we perform intra-modality contrastive learning among the graphical views and
their corrupted views. Concretely, we corrupt each of the graphical view gi with the edge dropping
operation to obtain its corrupted view gi′ . The positive pairs and negative pairs for structurepreserving purpose are then designed as:
+
Ipreserve
= {⟨ϕ2 (gi ), ϕ2 (gi′ )⟩|i ∈ Dtrain },

(11)

−
Ipreserve
= {⟨ϕ2 (gi ), ϕ2 (gj′ )⟩|i ̸= j, i ∈ Dtrain , j ∈ Dtrain }.

(12)

To help the backbone LLMs to digest the graphical views, we tune the LLMs with the expert soft
signal. The prompt for finetuning consists of the system prompt, retrieved knowledge where the
expert encoded graphical view is contained using a token embedding, and task prompt, as illustrated
in Figure 4 (b). After the finetuning stage, we used the tuned models to generate codes using the soft
prompting template.

3

Experiments

RQ1 Does the proposed CodeGRAG offer performance gain against the base model?
RQ2 Does the proposed graph view abstract more informative knowledge compared with the raw
code block?
RQ3 Can soft prompting enhance the capability of the backbone LLMs? Does finetuning with the
expert signals outperform the simple supervised finetuning ?
RQ4 Are the proposed pretraining objectives for the GNN expert effective?
RQ5 What is the impact of each of the components of the graphical view?
RQ6 How is the compatibility of the graph extraction process?
3.1

Setup

In this paper, we evaluate CodeGRAG with the widely used HumanEval-X2 Zheng et al. (2023)
dataset, competition-style CodeForce3 and APPS4 Hendrycks et al. (2021) datasets. We use greedy
decoding strategy to do the generation. The evaluation metric is Pass@1. More details of the retrieval
pool and the finetuning settings can be found in Section A.1 in the Appendix.
2

https://github.com/THUDM/CodeGeeX
https://paperswithcode.com/sota/code-generation-on-apps
4
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.09938v3
3

6

Table 1: Results of Hard Meta-Graph Prompt on Humaneval-X. (Pass@1)
Model
GPT-3.5-Turbo

GPT-4omini

Retrieved Knowledge
N/A
Code Block (Nashid et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2022)
Meta-Graph
(Multi-Lingual) Code-Block (Nashid et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2022)
(Multi-Lingual) Meta-Graph
N/A
Code Block (Nashid et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2022)
Meta-Graph
(Multi-Lingual) Code-Block (Nashid et al., 2023; Lu et al., 2022)
(Multi-Lingual) Meta-Graph

C++
57.93
60.37
62.20
62.20
64.02
63.41
65.24
65.85
65.85
67.07

Python
71.95
72.56
72.56
70.12
77.44
78.66
78.66
79.88
79.27
80.49

Table 2: Results of Soft Prompting. (Pass@1)
Model
Gemma 7b
Llama2 13b
CodeLlama 7b

3.2

Finetune
N/A
SFT
Soft Prompting
N/A
SFT
Soft Prompting
N/A
SFT
Soft Prompting

CodeForce (C++)
12.83
14.76
19.13
9.61
11.88
13.62
5.20
9.87
11.09

APPS (Python)
5.09
21.09
26.15
7.29
12.06
12.74
24.41
26.15
30.26

Main Results

The main results are summarized in Table 1 and Table 2. From the results, we can draw the following
conclusions.
RQ1. The proposed CodeGRAG could offer performance gain against the base model, which validates
the effectiveness of the proposed graphical retrieval augmented generation for code generation
framework.
RQ2. The model informed by the meta-graph (CodeGRAG) could beat model informed by the raw
code block. From the results, we can see that the proposed graph view could summarize the useful
structural syntax information and filter out the noises, which could offer more informative knowledge
hints than the raw code block. In addition, inserting the intermediate representations of codes into the
prompt can stimulate the corresponding programming knowledge of LLMs.
RQ3. From Table 2, we can see that finetuning with the expert soft prompting could offer more
performance gain than that brought by simple supervised finetuning. This validates the effectiveness
of the designed pretraining expert network and the technique of finetuning with soft prompting, which
injects the programming domain knowledge into the LLMs parameters and informs the models with
the structural information for gap filling.
3.3

Impacts of the objectives for soft prompting (RQ4)

To study the effectiveness of the proposed pretraining objectives for the expert GNN, we remove
each objective to yield different expert GNNs and visualize the hidden representations of codes with
T-SNE. The results are in Table 3 and Figure 5.
From the results, we could see that both the Alignment and the Structure Preserving contribute to the
expressiveness of the soft signal. The alignment pretraining objective helps to promote the alignment
among natural language, programming language, and their graphical views. The structure preserving
objective helps to preserve the innate data-flows and control-flows information of code blocks. The
two objectives collaborate with each other to yield expressive programming domain knowledge GNN
expert model, which encodes external programming knowledge and injects the knowledge into LLMs
parameters.
7

Table 3: Ablation studies on the two objectives.
Model
Gemma 7b
Llama2 13b
CodeLlama 7b

Finetune
Soft Prompting
w/o Alignment
w/o Structure-Preserving
Soft Prompting
w/o Alignment
w/o Structure-Preserving
Soft Prompting
w/o Alignment
w/o Structure-Preserving

w/o Alignment Objective

APPS (Python)
26.15
28.58
21.50
12.74
10.76
11.09
30.26
29.45
26.59

w/o Structure Preserving Objective

Python

C++

w/ Both

CodeForce (C++)
19.13
7.88
11.70
13.62
11.79
5.50
11.09
10.92
10.66

Figure 5: T-sne visualization of soft signals trained with different objectives.
3.4

Impacts of the Components of the Graphical View (RQ5)

In this section, we adjust the inputs of the graphical components to the LLMs. Concretely, we study
the information contained in node names, edge names, and the topological structure. The results are
presented in Table 4.
Table 4: Impacts of the graph components. The edge type refers to the type of flows between
operands (child, read, write, etc.), the node type refers
Datasets
Python
C++
to the type of operands (DeclStmt, temp, etc.), the
node name refers to the name of the intermediate
Edge Type Only
73.78
61.59
variables, and the topological information refers to
Edge Type + Node Name
75.00
59.76
Edge Type + Node Type
75.61
59.15
the statistics of the concrete numbers of different
Edge Type + Topological
77.44
64.02
types of edges. From the results, we can observe that
1) the edge features matter the most in constructing
the structural view of code blocks for enhancement, 2) the type of nodes expresses the most in
representing operands information, and 3) the overall structure of the graphical view also gives
additional information.
3.5

Compatibility Discussion (RQ6)

Despite the effectiveness of the proposed graphical views to represent the code blocks, the flexibility
and convenience of applying the graphical views extraction process is important for wider application
of the proposed method. In this section, we discuss the compatibility of CodeGRAG.
Table 5: Graph extraction rate (ER) of We give the ratio of generated results that can pass the
the generated results.
graphical views extraction process, which is denoted by
Extraction Rate. The Pass@1 and the Extraction Rate
Generated Codes
Pass@1
ER
of the generated results passing the graphical extraction
(C++) Code-RAG
62.20
92.07 process are given in Table 5.
(C++) CodeGRAG
(Python) Code-RAG
(Python) CodeGRAG

64.02
71.95
77.44

92.68
91.46
96.95

From the results, we could see that the extraction rates
are high for codes to pass the graphical views extraction
process, even under the situation where the Pass@1 ratios
8

of the generated results are low. This indicates that the
application range of the proposed method is wide. In addition, the extraction process of all the
graphical views are front-end. Therefore, this extraction process applies to a wide range of code, even
error code. One could also use regularization tools to reformulate the code and improve the pass rate
of the extraction process.

4

Related Work

Code Search. The code search methods can be summarized into three folds. Early methods utilize
sparse search to match the query and codes (Hill et al., 2011; Yang and Huang, 2017), which suffers
from mismatched vocabulary due to the gap between NL and PL. Neural methods (Cambronero et al.,
2019; Gu et al., 2021) then focus on mapping the query and codes into a joint representation space
for more accurate retrieval. With the success of pretrained language models, many methods propose
to use pretraining tasks to improve the code understanding abilities and align different language
spaces. For example, CodeBERT (Feng et al., 2020) is pretrained on NL-PL pairs of 6 programming
languages with the masked language modeling and replaced token detection task. CodeT5 (Wang
et al., 2021) supports both code-related understanding and generation tasks through bimodal dual
generation. UniXcoder (Guo et al., 2022) integrates the aforementioned pretraining tasks, which
is a unified cross-modal pre-trained model. As retrieval augmented generation (RAG) shows its
significance in promoting the quality of LLMs generation, works in code RAG start to accumulate.
Nashid et al. (2023); Lu et al. (2022) utilize the code blocks as the retrieved knowledge to inform the
LLMs with similar code blocks for enhancement. Zhou et al. (2022) uses the programming related
document to serve as the retrieval content, injecting auxiliary external programming knowledge into
the LLMs generation.
Code Representation. Early methods regard code snippets as sequences of tokens, assuming the
adjacent tokens will have strong correlations. This line of methods (Harer et al., 2018; Ben-Nun
et al., 2018; Feng et al., 2020; Ciniselli et al., 2021) take programming languages as the same with
the natural language, using language models to encode the code snippets too. However, this ignoring
of the inherent structure of codes leads to a loss of expressiveness. Methods that take the structural
information of codes into consideration then emerge. Mou et al. (2016) used convolution networks
over the abstract syntax tree (AST) extracted from codes. Alon et al. (2019) encoded paths sampled
from the AST to represent codes. Further exploration into the graphical representation of codes
(Allamanis et al., 2017) is conducted to better encode the structures of codes, where more intermediate
states of the codes are considered.

5

Limitations

In this paper, we propose a graphical retrieval augmented generation method that can offer enhanced
code generation. Despite the efficiency and effectiveness, there are also limitations within this work.
For example, dependency on the quality of the external knowledge base could be a potential concern.
The quality of the external knowledge base could be improved with regular expression extraction on
the noisy texts and codes.

6

Conclusion

In this paper, we locate the syntactic gap and vocabulary mismatch problems in NL2Code process
and propose CodeGRAG to alleviate the above problems for enhanced code generation.CodeGRAG
effectively represent the programming hints to inform LLMs for code generation and improve their
understanding of programming domain knowledge. Concretely, we propose to extract the semantic
and logic knowledge of codes to serve as the programming hints and design proper ways to take in
the knowledge: 1) a meta-graph prompt for tuning-free models and 2) a soft-prompting technique
to inject the structural programming domain knowledge into the parameters of LLMs for tunable
models. Two objectives are designed to improve the alignment and structural expressiveness of the
soft signals, contributing to the informativeness of the single-token-sized <GraphEmb> for enhanced
code generation. By integrating properly-represented external knowledge, CodeGRAG enhances
LLMs’ comprehension of codes and empowers them to generate code with improved accuracy.
9

Acknowledgments and Disclosure of Funding
Use unnumbered first level headings for the acknowledgments. All acknowledgments go at the
end of the paper before the list of references. Moreover, you are required to declare funding
(financial activities supporting the submitted work) and competing interests (related financial activities
outside the submitted work). More information about this disclosure can be found at: https:
//neurips.cc/Conferences/2024/PaperInformation/FundingDisclosure.
Do not include this section in the anonymized submission, only in the final paper. You can use
the ack environment provided in the style file to automatically hide this section in the anonymized
submission.

10

References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. GPT-4 Technical
Report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774 (2023).
Alfred V Aho, Monica S Lam, Ravi Sethi, and Jeffrey D Ullman. 2006. Compilers: Principles
techniques and tools. 2007. Google Scholar Google Scholar Digital Library Digital Library
(2006).
Miltiadis Allamanis, Marc Brockschmidt, and Mahmoud Khademi. 2017. Learning to represent
programs with graphs. arXiv preprint arXiv:1711.00740 (2017).
Frances E Allen. 1970. Control flow analysis. ACM Sigplan Notices 5, 7 (1970), 1–19.
Uri Alon, Meital Zilberstein, Omer Levy, and Eran Yahav. 2019. code2vec: Learning distributed
representations of code. Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 3, POPL (2019),
1–29.
Tal Ben-Nun, Alice Shoshana Jakobovits, and Torsten Hoefler. 2018. Neural code comprehension: A
learnable representation of code semantics. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
31 (2018).
Jose Cambronero, Hongyu Li, Seohyun Kim, Koushik Sen, and Satish Chandra. 2019. When deep
learning met code search. In Proceedings of the 2019 27th ACM Joint Meeting on European
Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering.
964–974.
Matteo Ciniselli, Nathan Cooper, Luca Pascarella, Denys Poshyvanyk, Massimiliano Di Penta, and
Gabriele Bavota. 2021. An empirical study on the usage of bert models for code completion. In
2021 IEEE/ACM 18th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR). IEEE,
108–119.
Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing
Qin, Ting Liu, Daxin Jiang, et al. 2020. Codebert: A pre-trained model for programming and
natural languages. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.08155 (2020).
Jian Gu, Zimin Chen, and Martin Monperrus. 2021. Multimodal representation for neural code search.
In 2021 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME). IEEE,
483–494.
Daya Guo, Shuai Lu, Nan Duan, Yanlin Wang, Ming Zhou, and Jian Yin. 2022. Unixcoder: Unified
cross-modal pre-training for code representation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.03850 (2022).
Daya Guo, Shuo Ren, Shuai Lu, Zhangyin Feng, Duyu Tang, Shujie Liu, Long Zhou, Nan Duan,
Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Shengyu Fu, et al. 2020. Graphcodebert: Pre-training code representations
with data flow. arXiv preprint arXiv:2009.08366 (2020).
Jacob A Harer, Louis Y Kim, Rebecca L Russell, Onur Ozdemir, Leonard R Kosta, Akshay Rangamani, Lei H Hamilton, Gabriel I Centeno, Jonathan R Key, Paul M Ellingwood, et al. 2018. Automated software vulnerability detection with machine learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1803.04497
(2018).
Dan Hendrycks, Steven Basart, Saurav Kadavath, Mantas Mazeika, Akul Arora, Ethan Guo, Collin
Burns, Samir Puranik, Horace He, Dawn Song, et al. 2021. Measuring coding challenge competence
with apps. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.09938 (2021).
Emily Hill, Lori Pollock, and K Vijay-Shanker. 2011. Improving source code search with natural
language phrasal representations of method signatures. In 2011 26th IEEE/ACM International
Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE 2011). IEEE, 524–527.
Xue Jiang, Zhuoran Zheng, Chen Lyu, Liang Li, and Lei Lyu. 2021. Treebert: A tree-based pre-trained
model for programming language. In Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence. PMLR, 54–63.
11

Ting Long, Yutong Xie, Xianyu Chen, Weinan Zhang, Qinxiang Cao, and Yong Yu. 2022. Multi-View
Graph Representation for Programming Language Processing: An Investigation into Algorithm
Detection. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 36. 5792–5799.
Shuai Lu, Nan Duan, Hojae Han, Daya Guo, Seung-won Hwang, and Alexey Svyatkovskiy. 2022.
Reacc: A retrieval-augmented code completion framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.07722
(2022).
Lili Mou, Ge Li, Lu Zhang, Tao Wang, and Zhi Jin. 2016. Convolutional neural networks over
tree structures for programming language processing. In Proceedings of the AAAI conference on
artificial intelligence, Vol. 30.
Noor Nashid, Mifta Sintaha, and Ali Mesbah. 2023. Retrieval-based prompt selection for code-related
few-shot learning. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering
(ICSE). IEEE, 2450–2462.
Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi
Adi, Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, et al. 2023. Code llama: Open foundation models for
code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12950 (2023).
Bo Shen, Jiaxin Zhang, Taihong Chen, Daoguang Zan, Bing Geng, An Fu, Muhan Zeng, Ailun Yu,
Jichuan Ji, Jingyang Zhao, et al. 2023. Pangu-coder2: Boosting large language models for code
with ranking feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.14936 (2023).
Hongjin Su, Shuyang Jiang, Yuhang Lai, Haoyuan Wu, Boao Shi, Che Liu, Qian Liu, and Tao
Yu. 2024. EvoR: Evolving Retrieval for Code Generation. In Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2024. 2538–2554.
Yizhou Sun and Jiawei Han. 2013. Mining heterogeneous information networks: a structural analysis
approach. ACM SIGKDD explorations newsletter 14, 2 (2013), 20–28.
Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée
Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, et al. 2023. Llama: Open
and efficient foundation language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.13971 (2023).
Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq Joty, and Steven CH Hoi. 2021. Codet5: Identifier-aware unified pre-trained encoder-decoder models for code understanding and generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2109.00859 (2021).
Yangrui Yang and Qing Huang. 2017. IECS: Intent-enforced code search via extended Boolean
model. Journal of Intelligent & Fuzzy Systems 33, 4 (2017), 2565–2576.
Qinkai Zheng, Xiao Xia, Xu Zou, Yuxiao Dong, Shan Wang, Yufei Xue, Zihan Wang, Lei Shen, Andi
Wang, Yang Li, et al. 2023. Codegeex: A pre-trained model for code generation with multilingual
evaluations on humaneval-x. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.17568 (2023).
Shuyan Zhou, Uri Alon, Frank F Xu, Zhiruo Wang, Zhengbao Jiang, and Graham Neubig. 2022.
Docprompting: Generating code by retrieving the docs. arXiv preprint arXiv: 2207.05987 (2022).

A

Appendix

A.1

Implementation Details

For the size of the retrieval pool, we use 11, 913 C++ code snippets and 2, 359 Python code snippets.
Due to the limited access, we do not use a large retrieval corpus for our experiment, which can be
enlarged by other people for better performance. We also attach the graph extraction codes for both
languages and all other experiment codes here: https://anonymous.4open.science/r/Code-5970/
For the finetuning details, the learning rate and weight decay for the expert GNN training are 0.001
and 1e-5, respectively. We apply 8-bit quantization and use LoRA for parameter-efficient fine-tuning.
The rank of the low-rank matrices in LoRA is uniformly set to 8, alpha set to 16, and dropout is set to
0.05. The LoRA modules are uniformly applied to the Q and V parameter matrices of the attention
12

modules in each layer of the LLM. All three models are optimized using the AdamW optimizer. For
the CodeContest dataset, total 10, 609 data points are used, and for the APPS dataset, 8, 691 data
samples are used to train the model.

13

NeurIPS Paper Checklist
The checklist is designed to encourage best practices for responsible machine learning research,
addressing issues of reproducibility, transparency, research ethics, and societal impact. Do not remove
the checklist: The papers not including the checklist will be desk rejected. The checklist should
follow the references and follow the (optional) supplemental material. The checklist does NOT count
towards the page limit.
Please read the checklist guidelines carefully for information on how to answer these questions. For
each question in the checklist:
• You should answer [Yes] , [No] , or [NA] .
• [NA] means either that the question is Not Applicable for that particular paper or the
relevant information is Not Available.
• Please provide a short (1–2 sentence) justification right after your answer (even for NA).
The checklist answers are an integral part of your paper submission. They are visible to the
reviewers, area chairs, senior area chairs, and ethics reviewers. You will be asked to also include it
(after eventual revisions) with the final version of your paper, and its final version will be published
with the paper.
The reviewers of your paper will be asked to use the checklist as one of the factors in their evaluation.
While "[Yes] " is generally preferable to "[No] ", it is perfectly acceptable to answer "[No] " provided a
proper justification is given (e.g., "error bars are not reported because it would be too computationally
expensive" or "we were unable to find the license for the dataset we used"). In general, answering
"[No] " or "[NA] " is not grounds for rejection. While the questions are phrased in a binary way, we
acknowledge that the true answer is often more nuanced, so please just use your best judgment and
write a justification to elaborate. All supporting evidence can appear either in the main paper or the
supplemental material, provided in appendix. If you answer [Yes] to a question, in the justification
please point to the section(s) where related material for the question can be found.
IMPORTANT, please:
• Delete this instruction block, but keep the section heading “NeurIPS paper checklist",
• Keep the checklist subsection headings, questions/answers and guidelines below.
• Do not modify the questions and only use the provided macros for your answers.
1. Claims
Question: Do the main claims made in the abstract and introduction accurately reflect the
paper’s contributions and scope?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: See Section 3.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the abstract and introduction do not include the claims
made in the paper.
• The abstract and/or introduction should clearly state the claims made, including the
contributions made in the paper and important assumptions and limitations. A No or
NA answer to this question will not be perceived well by the reviewers.
• The claims made should match theoretical and experimental results, and reflect how
much the results can be expected to generalize to other settings.
• It is fine to include aspirational goals as motivation as long as it is clear that these goals
are not attained by the paper.
2. Limitations
14

Question: Does the paper discuss the limitations of the work performed by the authors?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: See Section 5.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper has no limitation while the answer No means that
the paper has limitations, but those are not discussed in the paper.
• The authors are encouraged to create a separate "Limitations" section in their paper.
• The paper should point out any strong assumptions and how robust the results are to
violations of these assumptions (e.g., independence assumptions, noiseless settings,
model well-specification, asymptotic approximations only holding locally). The authors
should reflect on how these assumptions might be violated in practice and what the
implications would be.
• The authors should reflect on the scope of the claims made, e.g., if the approach was
only tested on a few datasets or with a few runs. In general, empirical results often
depend on implicit assumptions, which should be articulated.
• The authors should reflect on the factors that influence the performance of the approach.
For example, a facial recognition algorithm may perform poorly when image resolution
is low or images are taken in low lighting. Or a speech-to-text system might not be
used reliably to provide closed captions for online lectures because it fails to handle
technical jargon.
• The authors should discuss the computational efficiency of the proposed algorithms
and how they scale with dataset size.
• If applicable, the authors should discuss possible limitations of their approach to
address problems of privacy and fairness.
• While the authors might fear that complete honesty about limitations might be used by
reviewers as grounds for rejection, a worse outcome might be that reviewers discover
limitations that aren’t acknowledged in the paper. The authors should use their best
judgment and recognize that individual actions in favor of transparency play an important role in developing norms that preserve the integrity of the community. Reviewers
will be specifically instructed to not penalize honesty concerning limitations.
3. Theory Assumptions and Proofs
Question: For each theoretical result, does the paper provide the full set of assumptions and
a complete (and correct) proof?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: N/A.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include theoretical results.
• All the theorems, formulas, and proofs in the paper should be numbered and crossreferenced.
• All assumptions should be clearly stated or referenced in the statement of any theorems.
• The proofs can either appear in the main paper or the supplemental material, but if
they appear in the supplemental material, the authors are encouraged to provide a short
proof sketch to provide intuition.
• Inversely, any informal proof provided in the core of the paper should be complemented
by formal proofs provided in appendix or supplemental material.
• Theorems and Lemmas that the proof relies upon should be properly referenced.

15

4. Experimental Result Reproducibility
Question: Does the paper fully disclose all the information needed to reproduce the main experimental results of the paper to the extent that it affects the main claims and/or conclusions
of the paper (regardless of whether the code and data are provided or not)?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The implementation is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/Code5970/. However, we do not provide the API needed to reproduce the results.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• If the paper includes experiments, a No answer to this question will not be perceived
well by the reviewers: Making the paper reproducible is important, regardless of
whether the code and data are provided or not.
• If the contribution is a dataset and/or model, the authors should describe the steps taken
to make their results reproducible or verifiable.
• Depending on the contribution, reproducibility can be accomplished in various ways.
For example, if the contribution is a novel architecture, describing the architecture fully
might suffice, or if the contribution is a specific model and empirical evaluation, it may
be necessary to either make it possible for others to replicate the model with the same
dataset, or provide access to the model. In general. releasing code and data is often
one good way to accomplish this, but reproducibility can also be provided via detailed
instructions for how to replicate the results, access to a hosted model (e.g., in the case
of a large language model), releasing of a model checkpoint, or other means that are
appropriate to the research performed.
• While NeurIPS does not require releasing code, the conference does require all submissions to provide some reasonable avenue for reproducibility, which may depend on the
nature of the contribution. For example
(a) If the contribution is primarily a new algorithm, the paper should make it clear how
to reproduce that algorithm.
(b) If the contribution is primarily a new model architecture, the paper should describe
the architecture clearly and fully.
(c) If the contribution is a new model (e.g., a large language model), then there should
either be a way to access this model for reproducing the results or a way to reproduce
the model (e.g., with an open-source dataset or instructions for how to construct
the dataset).
(d) We recognize that reproducibility may be tricky in some cases, in which case
authors are welcome to describe the particular way they provide for reproducibility.
In the case of closed-source models, it may be that access to the model is limited in
some way (e.g., to registered users), but it should be possible for other researchers
to have some path to reproducing or verifying the results.
5. Open access to data and code
Question: Does the paper provide open access to the data and code, with sufficient instructions to faithfully reproduce the main experimental results, as described in supplemental
material?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The implementation is available at https://anonymous.4open.science/r/Code5970/.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that paper does not include experiments requiring code.
16

• Please see the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https://nips.cc/
public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• While we encourage the release of code and data, we understand that this might not be
possible, so “No” is an acceptable answer. Papers cannot be rejected simply for not
including code, unless this is central to the contribution (e.g., for a new open-source
benchmark).
• The instructions should contain the exact command and environment needed to run to
reproduce the results. See the NeurIPS code and data submission guidelines (https:
//nips.cc/public/guides/CodeSubmissionPolicy) for more details.
• The authors should provide instructions on data access and preparation, including how
to access the raw data, preprocessed data, intermediate data, and generated data, etc.
• The authors should provide scripts to reproduce all experimental results for the new
proposed method and baselines. If only a subset of experiments are reproducible, they
should state which ones are omitted from the script and why.
• At submission time, to preserve anonymity, the authors should release anonymized
versions (if applicable).
• Providing as much information as possible in supplemental material (appended to the
paper) is recommended, but including URLs to data and code is permitted.
6. Experimental Setting/Details
Question: Does the paper specify all the training and test details (e.g., data splits, hyperparameters, how they were chosen, type of optimizer, etc.) necessary to understand the
results?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: See Section 3.1 and Appendix A.1.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The experimental setting should be presented in the core of the paper to a level of detail
that is necessary to appreciate the results and make sense of them.
• The full details can be provided either with the code, in appendix, or as supplemental
material.
7. Experiment Statistical Significance
Question: Does the paper report error bars suitably and correctly defined or other appropriate
information about the statistical significance of the experiments?
Answer: [No]
Justification: N/A.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The authors should answer "Yes" if the results are accompanied by error bars, confidence intervals, or statistical significance tests, at least for the experiments that support
the main claims of the paper.
• The factors of variability that the error bars are capturing should be clearly stated (for
example, train/test split, initialization, random drawing of some parameter, or overall
run with given experimental conditions).
• The method for calculating the error bars should be explained (closed form formula,
call to a library function, bootstrap, etc.)

17

• The assumptions made should be given (e.g., Normally distributed errors).
• It should be clear whether the error bar is the standard deviation or the standard error
of the mean.
• It is OK to report 1-sigma error bars, but one should state it. The authors should
preferably report a 2-sigma error bar than state that they have a 96% CI, if the hypothesis
of Normality of errors is not verified.
• For asymmetric distributions, the authors should be careful not to show in tables or
figures symmetric error bars that would yield results that are out of range (e.g. negative
error rates).
• If error bars are reported in tables or plots, The authors should explain in the text how
they were calculated and reference the corresponding figures or tables in the text.
8. Experiments Compute Resources
Question: For each experiment, does the paper provide sufficient information on the computer resources (type of compute workers, memory, time of execution) needed to reproduce
the experiments?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: See Appendix A.1.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not include experiments.
• The paper should indicate the type of compute workers CPU or GPU, internal cluster,
or cloud provider, including relevant memory and storage.
• The paper should provide the amount of compute required for each of the individual
experimental runs as well as estimate the total compute.
• The paper should disclose whether the full research project required more compute
than the experiments reported in the paper (e.g., preliminary or failed experiments that
didn’t make it into the paper).
9. Code Of Ethics
Question: Does the research conducted in the paper conform, in every respect, with the
NeurIPS Code of Ethics https://neurips.cc/public/EthicsGuidelines?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The research conforms with the Neurips Code of Ethics.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the authors have not reviewed the NeurIPS Code of Ethics.
• If the authors answer No, they should explain the special circumstances that require a
deviation from the Code of Ethics.
• The authors should make sure to preserve anonymity (e.g., if there is a special consideration due to laws or regulations in their jurisdiction).
10. Broader Impacts
Question: Does the paper discuss both potential positive societal impacts and negative
societal impacts of the work performed?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: See Section 6.
Guidelines:

18

• The answer NA means that there is no societal impact of the work performed.
• If the authors answer NA or No, they should explain why their work has no societal
impact or why the paper does not address societal impact.
• Examples of negative societal impacts include potential malicious or unintended uses
(e.g., disinformation, generating fake profiles, surveillance), fairness considerations
(e.g., deployment of technologies that could make decisions that unfairly impact specific
groups), privacy considerations, and security considerations.
• The conference expects that many papers will be foundational research and not tied
to particular applications, let alone deployments. However, if there is a direct path to
any negative applications, the authors should point it out. For example, it is legitimate
to point out that an improvement in the quality of generative models could be used to
generate deepfakes for disinformation. On the other hand, it is not needed to point out
that a generic algorithm for optimizing neural networks could enable people to train
models that generate Deepfakes faster.
• The authors should consider possible harms that could arise when the technology is
being used as intended and functioning correctly, harms that could arise when the
technology is being used as intended but gives incorrect results, and harms following
from (intentional or unintentional) misuse of the technology.
• If there are negative societal impacts, the authors could also discuss possible mitigation
strategies (e.g., gated release of models, providing defenses in addition to attacks,
mechanisms for monitoring misuse, mechanisms to monitor how a system learns from
feedback over time, improving the efficiency and accessibility of ML).
11. Safeguards
Question: Does the paper describe safeguards that have been put in place for responsible
release of data or models that have a high risk for misuse (e.g., pretrained language models,
image generators, or scraped datasets)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: N/A.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper poses no such risks.
• Released models that have a high risk for misuse or dual-use should be released with
necessary safeguards to allow for controlled use of the model, for example by requiring
that users adhere to usage guidelines or restrictions to access the model or implementing
safety filters.
• Datasets that have been scraped from the Internet could pose safety risks. The authors
should describe how they avoided releasing unsafe images.
• We recognize that providing effective safeguards is challenging, and many papers do
not require this, but we encourage authors to take this into account and make a best
faith effort.
12. Licenses for existing assets
Question: Are the creators or original owners of assets (e.g., code, data, models), used in
the paper, properly credited and are the license and terms of use explicitly mentioned and
properly respected?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: The existing assets used are properly cited.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not use existing assets.

19

• The authors should cite the original paper that produced the code package or dataset.
• The authors should state which version of the asset is used and, if possible, include a
URL.
• The name of the license (e.g., CC-BY 4.0) should be included for each asset.
• For scraped data from a particular source (e.g., website), the copyright and terms of
service of that source should be provided.
• If assets are released, the license, copyright information, and terms of use in the
package should be provided. For popular datasets, paperswithcode.com/datasets
has curated licenses for some datasets. Their licensing guide can help determine the
license of a dataset.
• For existing datasets that are re-packaged, both the original license and the license of
the derived asset (if it has changed) should be provided.
• If this information is not available online, the authors are encouraged to reach out to
the asset’s creators.
13. New Assets
Question: Are new assets introduced in the paper well documented and is the documentation
provided alongside the assets?
Answer: [Yes]
Justification: Codes are public.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not release new assets.
• Researchers should communicate the details of the dataset/code/model as part of their
submissions via structured templates. This includes details about training, license,
limitations, etc.
• The paper should discuss whether and how consent was obtained from people whose
asset is used.
• At submission time, remember to anonymize your assets (if applicable). You can either
create an anonymized URL or include an anonymized zip file.
14. Crowdsourcing and Research with Human Subjects
Question: For crowdsourcing experiments and research with human subjects, does the paper
include the full text of instructions given to participants and screenshots, if applicable, as
well as details about compensation (if any)?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: N/A.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Including this information in the supplemental material is fine, but if the main contribution of the paper involves human subjects, then as much detail as possible should be
included in the main paper.
• According to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics, workers involved in data collection, curation,
or other labor should be paid at least the minimum wage in the country of the data
collector.
15. Institutional Review Board (IRB) Approvals or Equivalent for Research with Human
Subjects
20

Question: Does the paper describe potential risks incurred by study participants, whether
such risks were disclosed to the subjects, and whether Institutional Review Board (IRB)
approvals (or an equivalent approval/review based on the requirements of your country or
institution) were obtained?
Answer: [NA]
Justification: N/A.
Guidelines:
• The answer NA means that the paper does not involve crowdsourcing nor research with
human subjects.
• Depending on the country in which research is conducted, IRB approval (or equivalent)
may be required for any human subjects research. If you obtained IRB approval, you
should clearly state this in the paper.
• We recognize that the procedures for this may vary significantly between institutions
and locations, and we expect authors to adhere to the NeurIPS Code of Ethics and the
guidelines for their institution.
• For initial submissions, do not include any information that would break anonymity (if
applicable), such as the institution conducting the review.

21

