AI-assisted Coding with Cody: Lessons from Context Retrieval
and Evaluation for Code Recommendations
Jan Hartman, Rishabh Mehrotra, Hitesh Sagtani, Dominic Cooney, Rafal Gajdulewicz, Beyang Liu,
Julie Tibshirani, Quinn Slack

arXiv:2408.05344v1 [cs.IR] 9 Aug 2024

{jan.hartman,rishabh.mehrotra}@sourcegraph.com
Sourcegraph
San Francisco, California, USA

ABSTRACT
In this work, we discuss a recently popular type of recommender
system: an LLM-based coding assistant. Connecting the task of providing code recommendations in multiple formats to traditional
RecSys challenges, we outline several similarities and diﬀerences
due to domain speciﬁcs. We emphasize the importance of providing relevant context to an LLM for this use case and discuss lessons
learned from context enhancements & oﬄine and online evaluation of such AI-assisted coding systems.

CCS CONCEPTS
• Software and its engineering → Software creation and management; • Information systems → Language models; • Computing methodologies → Natural language processing.

KEYWORDS
coding assistant, large language model, context window, code generation, evaluation
ACM Reference Format:
Jan Hartman, Rishabh Mehrotra, Hitesh Sagtani, Dominic Cooney, Rafal
Gajdulewicz, Beyang Liu, Julie Tibshirani, Quinn Slack. 2024. AI-assisted
Coding with Cody: Lessons from Context Retrieval and Evaluation for Code
Recommendations. In 18th ACM Conference on Recommender Systems (RecSys ’24), October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 3 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3640457.3688060

LLMs likely are not trained on the user’s code (typically due to
costs, UX issues, and privacy concerns), meaning that out of the
box, their responses will be far from optimal. Furthermore, lacking repository-speciﬁc code context, the generated code often suffers from hallucinations. The common solution to this problem is
providing relevant context to the model inside the prompt. This
involves ﬁnding sections of text or code that are relevant to the
user’s query and stitching together a prompt to enable in-context
learning [6] for the LLM, dramatically increasing the quality of the
responses [3].
However, we cannot simply ﬁt all relevant snippets into the
prompt as the context window size in LLMs is limited for practical
reasons. Despite many recent advancements [5] in this direction,
some even allowing sizes up to 1 million tokens [12], extending
the context window is not a one-size-ﬁts-all solution – it makes
inference far more costly and with large codebases, we still might
not be able to ﬁt all relevant items. This means that our approach
has to consider both recall and precision and be able to pick only
a few most relevant context items.
In the remainder of this work, we discuss the importance of the
context-picking engine inside a coding assistant, outline some key
evaluation diﬀerences compared to a traditional RecSys, and provide some practical considerations gathered while working on a
real-life coding assistant – Sourcegraph’s Cody1 .

2 CONTEXT ENGINE
1

INTRODUCTION

Recent advancements in the large language model (LLM) area have
made it feasible to use such models to assist with software development. Popular models like the GPT family [1] or Claude [2]
have demonstrated good results on coding benchmarks such as HumanEval [4]. There is also a number of LLMs ﬁne-tuned for code
generation [4] with many such models having publicly available
weights [9, 11]. These models are commonly used in coding assistant applications to improve productivity [7] by providing code
recommendations in use cases such as autocomplete or chat [10].
A key part of any coding assistant is understanding the user’s
codebase as this enables the assistant to provide reliable recommendations. However, a key problem here is that the underlying
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for proﬁt or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the ﬁrst page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy
© 2024 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-0505-2/24/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3640457.3688060

The goal of the context engine inside a coding assistant is similar to
candidate generation in a traditional recommender system: given
the state of the user’s workspace and a query, ﬁnd N most relevant
sections of text or code (we call these context items). The number
of context items depends heavily on the use case as the latency
can be a critical part of the recommendations – an autocomplete
suggestion needs to be generated much faster than a chat response.
Like in most RecSys, we also distinguish between two stages in this
process: retrieving context items and ranking them.
The number of sources of context we can use in a coding assistant is vast: local and remote code, source control history, code
review tools, editor state, terminal, documentation, chats, internal
Wikis, ticketing systems, observability dashboards, etc. Unlike a
traditional RecSys, items from these are not in a centralized source
of data and we often do not have access to them ahead of time, thus
diminishing our ability to e.g. create indexes or precompute useful
metrics.

1 https://cody.dev

RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy

Jan Hartman, Rishabh Mehrotra, Hitesh Sagtani, Dominic Cooney, Rafal Gajdulewicz, Beyang Liu, Julie Tibshirani, Quinn Slack

For searching through the space of context items, we can use
techniques like similarity-based matching, keyword search, semantic search (embedding-powered retrieval augmented generation [8]),
code graph analysis, etc. In this stage, approximate approaches are
preferred for performance reasons and we are optimizing for recall
– that is, we care more about retrieving all relevant items rather
than retrieving only relevant items. Our limitations here are latency and the token budget. An interesting observation is that context retrieval sources should be complementary – that is, we want
them to retrieve distinct sets of relevant items. Theoretically, we
should be able to achieve this by utilizing techniques like keyword
and semantic search as they use diﬀerent matching strategies.
The second stage of the context engine consists of ranking the
context items. Here, our use case again diﬀers from traditional RecSys: we do not present the items we are ranking to the user, the
goal of ranking here is only to pick the most relevant items to insert into the LLM prompt. This means we cannot get user feedback
as labels, which complicates evaluation – we discuss more in the
next section. Furthermore, we do not take into account the positions of the ranked items. We only want to pick items above a
certain threshold. The threshold can be e.g. a relevance score or
a token budget. Given a good ranking model, this stage optimizes
for precision, i.e. keeping only relevant items. With our setting, we
can make a pointwise ranker model work well: we can simply train
it to predict whether a given context item is relevant to the user’s
query.

To build and evaluate the model used for ranking, we share
learnings from various datasets we created that enabled us to perform oﬄine evaluations of various coding assistant features: code
completions, code edits, unit test generation, and open-ended chat.
The end-to-end case is by far the closest to the online setting.
Of course, the main goal of the coding assistant is to provide highquality recommendations. End-to-end evaluation means we have
to judge the utility to the user, which diﬀers based on the task. Here,
one of the advantages of working with code is that we can utilize
domain speciﬁcs to make sure that the recommendations provide
value. For autocompletions, this can involve syntactic (e.g. does it
parse?) and semantic (e.g. do the types match?) checks over the
resulting code segment to prevent nonsensical outputs. When generating unit tests, we can follow similar logic, including checking
if the tested function was called, if it was called with the correct arguments, and actually running the test. If the user poses a question
relating to existing functionality in the codebase, we can scan the
resulting code segment to make sure the generated code symbols
exist. For general chat responses, we can utilize techniques such as
LLM judging [13] to evaluate their quality. An especially positive
side of these checks is that certain ones can be used as guardrails
in the online setting: if the assistant generates a recommendation,
it makes sense to check if it fulﬁlls the intended purpose before displaying it to the user. With techniques such as these, we can curtail
LLM hallucinations and improve the quality of the assistant.

PRESENTER BIO

3

EVALUATION

Evaluating an LLM-based coding assistant can present several difﬁculties. The biggest issue is the large online-oﬄine discrepancy
as the two settings are signiﬁcantly diﬀerent. It is important to
note that we cannot rely on being able to easily store the complete
state of the workspace at request time due to several factors – most
prominently, technological issues and privacy concerns. Many of
the context item sources also only exist on the user’s device and
can be ephemeral. Being unable to log and use this data for ofﬂine evaluations makes it very diﬃcult to bridge the online-oﬄine
gap. In the online environment, we can receive user feedback – we
know if the user accepted an autocomplete suggestion or if they
marked the chat response as useful / not useful. These can be used
to judge online A/B tests.
The second issue is a signiﬁcant lack of labeled data, especially
with regard to the context engine. A dataset here might be a set
of queries against codebases with the labels being sets of relevant
snippets of text or code. Even manual annotation is no easy task: to
get correct answers to queries like “Where is XYZ implemented?”
in real codebases, we require an expert annotator, meaning that
this task cannot be easily crowdsourced.
Lastly, we have to take into account that the coding assistant has
several components – we can try to evaluate either each component (retrieval, ranking, LLM) separately or everything end-to-end.
For retrieval, we have created an internal, crowdsourced dataset of
queries and have found that can provide great insights into diﬀerent retrieval strategies.

Jan Hartman is a machine learning engineer at Sourcegraph, where
he works on Cody’s context engine. His work is focused on evaluating new sources of context, i.e. ways for Cody to understand codebases. Before joining Sourcegraph, he worked on high-throughput,
low-latency ML pipelines at a large scale in adtech. Honors MSc degree in Computer & Data Science from the University of Ljubljana.
Open-source contributor. Research interests include deep learning,
neural network embeddings, and model compression.

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We would like to thank the entire Sourcegraph Cody team for their
contributions.

REFERENCES

[1] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774
(2023).
[2] Anthropic. 2024.
Claude 3 model family.
(2024).
https://www-cdn.anthropic.com/de8ba9b01c9ab7cbabf5c33b80b7bbc618857627/Model_Card_Claud
[3] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Subbiah, Jared D Kaplan,
Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, et al. 2020. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances in neural
information processing systems 33 (2020), 1877–1901.
[4] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde
de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large language models trained on code.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374 (2021).
[5] Shouyuan Chen, Sherman Wong, Liangjian Chen, and Yuandong Tian. 2023. Extending context window of large language models via positional interpolation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.15595 (2023).
[6] Qingxiu Dong, Lei Li, Damai Dai, Ce Zheng, Zhiyong Wu, Baobao Chang, Xu
Sun, Jingjing Xu, and Zhifang Sui. 2022. A survey on in-context learning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2301.00234 (2022).

AI-assisted Coding with Cody: Lessons from Context Retrieval and Evaluation for Code Recommendations

[7] A. Fan, B. Gokkaya, M. Harman, M. Lyubarskiy, S. Sengupta, S. Yoo, and J. M.
Zhang. 2023. Large Language Models for Software Engineering: Survey and
Open Problems. In 2023 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering: Future of Software Engineering (ICSE-FoSE). IEEE Computer Society, Los
Alamitos, CA, USA, 31–53. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSE-FoSE59343.2023.00008
[8] Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir
Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. 2020. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp
tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33 (2020), 9459–9474.
[9] Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas Muennighoﬀ, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao Mou, Marc Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim,
et al. 2023.
Starcoder: may the source be with you!
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.06161 (2023).
[10] Steven I. Ross, Fernando Martinez, Stephanie Houde, Michael Muller, and
Justin D. Weisz. 2023. The Programmer’s Assistant: Conversational Interaction with a Large Language Model for Software Development. In Proceedings

RecSys ’24, October 14–18, 2024, Bari, Italy

of the 28th International Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces (Sydney, NSW,
Australia) (IUI ’23). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA,
491–514. https://doi.org/10.1145/3581641.3584037
[11] Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, et al. 2023. Code
llama: Open foundation models for code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12950 (2023).
[12] Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste
Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth,
et al. 2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805 (2023).
[13] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu,
Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric Xing, et al. 2024. Judging
llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 36 (2024).

