FEA-Bench: A Benchmark for Evaluating Repository-Level Code
Generation for Feature Implementation
Wei Li♡ * , Xin Zhang♠†‡ , Zhongxin Guo♠ , Shaoguang Mao♠
Wen Luo , Guangyue Peng♡ , Yangyu Huang♠ , Houfeng Wang♡ † , Scarlett Li♠
♡
State Key Laboratory of Multimedia Information Processing,
School of Computer Science, Peking University
♠
Microsoft Research Asia
weili22@stu.pku.edu.cn
xinzhang3@microsoft.com, wanghf@pku.edu.cn
♡

arXiv:2503.06680v2 [cs.SE] 19 Jun 2025

Abstract
Implementing new features in repository-level
codebases is a crucial application of code generation models. However, current benchmarks
lack a dedicated evaluation framework for this
capability. To fill this gap, we introduce FEABench, a benchmark designed to assess the
ability of large language models (LLMs) to
perform incremental development within code
repositories. We collect pull requests from
83 GitHub repositories and use rule-based and
intent-based filtering to construct task instances
focused on new feature development. Each task
instance containing code changes is paired with
relevant unit test files to ensure that the solution can be verified. The feature implementation requires LLMs to simultaneously possess
code completion capabilities for new components and code editing abilities for other relevant parts in the code repository, providing
a more comprehensive evaluation method of
LLMs’ automated software engineering capabilities. Experimental results show that LLMs
perform significantly worse in the FEA-Bench,
highlighting considerable challenges in such
repository-level incremental code development.
Our code will soon be publicly available at
https://github.com/microsoft/FEA-Bench.

1

Figure 1: The proposed FEA-Bench aims to evaluate
incremental repository development, while SWE-bench
(Jimenez et al., 2024) focuses on repairing issues.

and LiveCodeBench (Chen et al., 2021; Austin
et al., 2021; Jain et al., 2024). These benchmarks
offer little insight into the challenges developers
face in real-world projects, where codebases are
composed of multiple interconnected files. In such
projects, modifications in one part of the code often necessitate corresponding edits elsewhere. This
type of collaborative, large-scale development is
referred to as repository-level code development.
In the realm of repository-level code generation,
much of the current evaluation effort is centered
around code completion (Li et al., 2024b; Yang
et al., 2024a). Code completion refers to generating correct code snippets at specified locations
within a given code context. However, this task
is inherently limited—it typically targets localized
generation and does not account for broader implications beyond the scope of completion.

Introduction

The remarkable text generation capabilities of large
language models (LLMs) (Achiam et al., 2023)
have extended their impact into the domain of code
generation (Xu et al., 2022), which has led to the
emergence of developer assistants such as Copilot,
Cursor, Devin, etc. An important research topic is
evaluating the effectiveness of LLMs in generating
code across diverse scenarios. Many of the existing
benchmarks focus on evaluating standalone programming problems, such as HumanEval, MBPP,

Recent advancements in the capabilities of
LLMs have expanded their potential role from
merely suggesting code snippets to managing the
full lifecycle of repository development. A prominent benchmark in this domain is SWE-bench
(Jimenez et al., 2024), which evaluates LLMs on
resolving issues, primarily focusing on bug fixes
within repositories. In practice, as shown in Figure 1, a more critical aspect of software engineering is the launch of new features, which often entails introducing new functions or even entire files

* Work done during internship at MSRA.
†
‡

Corresponding author.
Project leader.

1

into the repository. The continuous implementation of new features drives software growth and
is a key focus of automated software engineering.
We define such tasks as repository-level incremental code development. In this work, to bridge the
gap in benchmarks for this domain, we construct
a dataset derived from pull requests in GitHub
repositories that specifically focus on adding new
components, with the overarching goal of implementing new features. Each task instance in our
dataset is paired with its corresponding unit test
files, culminating in the creation of the Feature
Implementation Benchmark (FEA-Bench), which
comprises 1,401 task instances sourced from 83
diverse GitHub repositories.
Statistically, our dataset exhibits characteristics
that significantly differ from the bug-fix-oriented
SWE-bench. Task instances in FEA-Bench require
the implementation of new functions and classes
in Python and involve substantially longer code
generation compared to SWE-Bench. Experimental results demonstrate that current LLMs perform
poorly on the proposed benchmark. According to
our execution-based metrics, the best-performing
LLM, DeepSeek-R1, successfully resolves only
about 10% of the task instances. The key contributions of this paper are as follows:

ation, debugging, and translation capabilities (Pan
et al., 2024; Li et al., 2023a; Joshi et al., 2023;
Shi et al., 2024). Large-scale pre-trained LLMs
such as GPT-4 (Achiam et al., 2023), CodeLlama
(Roziere et al., 2023), DeepSeek-Coder (Guo et al.,
2024; Zhu et al., 2024), and Qwen2.5-Coder (Hui
et al., 2024) have demonstrated proficiency in generating functional code across multiple programming languages. Recent advancements also include
instruction-tuned models like Starcoder (Li et al.,
2023b), WizardCoder (Luo et al., 2023), WaveCoder (Yu et al., 2024b), Magicoder (Wei et al.,
2024) and EpiCoder (Wang et al., 2025). With
these advancements, code LLMs are poised to further revolutionize how developers interact with
code, promising increased efficiency in software
creation. Additionally, the integration of agents
(Luo et al., 2025) has further enhanced the performance of LLMs in software engineering tasks
(Yang et al., 2024b; Xia et al., 2024; Zhang et al.,
2024). In this paper, we further evaluate the performance of current LLMs in the incremental code
development scenarios at the repository level. This
investigation aims to drive the research on code
LLMs toward addressing more intricate software
engineering challenges, thereby advancing the capabilities of these models in handling sophisticated
development tasks.

• We introduce the task of repository-level incremental code development, addressing a critical challenge in real-world software engineering where the continuous implementation of
new features is essential for sustaining software growth.

2.2

Recent code generation benchmarks, such as HumanEval (Chen et al., 2021) and MBPP (Austin
et al., 2021), have primarily focused on synthesizing standalone functions or scripts from natural language, while subsequent efforts like APPS
(Hendrycks et al., 2021), EvalPlus (Liu et al.,
2023a), CoderEval (Yu et al., 2024a), ClassEval
(Du et al., 2023), BigCodeBench (Zhuo et al.,
2024), and FullStackBench (Liu et al., 2024b) have
expanded evaluation to more complex scenarios.
However, these benchmarks largely overlook the
repository-level challenges of real-world software
development, a gap addressed by recent works
(Bairi et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2023). Because
of the wild applications of auto code completion
tools like Github Copilot (Dakhel et al., 2023),
most repository-level code generation benchmarks
aim to evaluate the code completion capabilities of
LLMs (Liu et al., 2023b). Repository-level code
completion aims to generate code for incomplete
code snippets within a repository (Wang et al.,
2024). Benchmarks such as DevEval (Li et al.,

• We construct the first benchmark to evaluate repository-level incremental code development. By employing parsing and other filtering methods, we constructed a dataset composed of feature implementation tasks, offering execution-based evaluation.
• Using an automated pipeline, we scale the test
data to include 83 diverse code repositories,
ensuring high diversity. We will publicly release our data collection and evaluation codebase, allowing FEA-Bench to be continuously
updated and expanded.

2

Related Work

2.1

Code Large Language Models

Code Generation Benchmarks

Large language models (LLMs) have revolutionized software engineering by enabling code gener2

2024b), EvoCodeBench (Li et al., 2024a), CodevBench (Pan et al., 2024), and ExecRepoBench
(Yang et al., 2024a) evaluate this capability. However, code completion data constructed by removing a single line or function body can suffer from
future context leakage issues (Zheng et al., 2024).
In practice, autonomous development of a code
repository should include all edits to the code,
rather than simply completing the specified code
under perfect context. SWE-bench (Jimenez et al.,
2024) focuses on repairing repositories’ issues by
revising existing programs. This highlights the
need for models to effectively modify and integrate changes within the repository. Our work fills
another gap of incremental repository-level development by introducing a benchmark that evaluates
LLMs on the implementation of new features, further bridging the divide between code completion
and real-world software engineering.

3

Benchmark Construction

3.1

Overview

Figure 2: An example of the task instances from the
FEA-Bench. During the inference of LLMs, the first
two items: feature request and new components are
considered as known information. The environment
setup serves as a prerequisite for creating the testbed
and environment. Python file patches and unit tests are
used as labels and evaluation metrics and should not be
leaked during the inference of LLMs.

The task instances in FEA-Bench are constructed
based on existing pull request (PR) data from
GitHub. As illustrated in Figure 2, each task instance contains the following elements:
❶ Feature Request Content of the pull request
and corresponding issues (if any) provide essential
information regarding the new feature or functionality to be developed.
❷ Definition of New Components This includes the signatures and documentation of newly
added functions and classes. The name of the
new component must be consistent with that in
PR, which is the prerequisite for completing the
task, because unit tests are written based on the
specified name.
❸ Environment Setup This includes the relevant information for the repository and specifies
the base commit of the code repository for each
task instance. Besides, the configurations of the
building execution environment are also included.
❹ Patch It describes the changes made to the
code in the repository and can be processed by
the unidiff standard library1 . Additionally, the
changes can be applied to the repository using the
git apply tool. A patch can be divided into a
test patch and a gold patch; the former pertains to
changes in test codes, while the latter involves the
other changes affecting the software itself.
1

❺ Unit Test The correctness of the code changes
is verified based on the result of running these tests.
We get the ground truth status by actually running
pytest before and after applying the gold patch.
Our data collection pipeline is developed based
on SWE-bench. As shown in Figure 3, the proposed collection pipeline ensures data diversity and
comprehensiveness, enabling a robust evaluation
of LLMs’ capabilities in implementing new features at the repository level. By making our data
collection and evaluation codes publicly available,
we aim to facilitate continuous updates and the creation of new versions of FEA-Bench. In the rest of
this section, we will discuss the construction and
the characteristics of FEA-Bench.
3.2

Repository Collection

To determine the scope of GitHub repositories for
data collection, we initially focus on the GitHub
repositories corresponding to Python packages
listed on the Top PyPI website2 . Packages appearing on this list are generally influential Python soft2

https://github.com/matiasb/python-unidiff

3

https://hugovk.github.io/top-pypi-packages/

Figure 3: The data collection pipeline for the FEA-Bench. First, determine the scope of GitHub repositories from
which task instances will be collected. Next, gather pull requests as task instances and apply filtering criteria to
select instances that meet the purpose of adding new features. Finally, use the included test files to execute unit tests,
ensuring that only task instances with reproducible test results are included in FEA-Bench. For a more detailed
construction process, please refer to Appendix A.2.

ware with high data quality, and most repositories
use a unified pytest format for testing, which facilitates later execution. This leaderboard contains
8,000 Python packages. We obtain approximately
600 repositories that meet the criteria of having a
license and more than 1,000 pull requests by applying a filtering process.
Fast Validation Except for repositories already
included in SWE-bench, the remaining repositories do not have customized installation procedures
or testing methods. While environment configurations vary among different Python packages, pip
offers a unified installation approach3 . And we
adopt pytest as the default method for unit testing.
Based on these settings, for each repository, we extract the first 20 pull requests that include changes
to test files and observe the unit test status. Repositories that have at least one task instance where the
unit tests passed with the default configuration are
retained, as they possess the potential to generate
task instances that meet our criteria.
After this fast validation process, in addition to
the 18 Python packages included in the SWE-bench
dataset, another 101 Python packages are identified
as sources for extracting repository-level data for
our benchmark.
3.3

and functions, and extract their signatures and docstrings as metadata.
Filtering based on new components We retain only those task instances that contain at least
one new component. To ensure that implementing
new features is the primary purpose of the pull request, we further restrict the new components to
occupy more than 25% of all edited lines in gold
patch. This threshold is set relatively low because
code changes often need to include modifications
to other related code in addition to the new components themselves.
Intent-based filtering The pull requests filtered
using the above rule-based approach still include
some that are not primarily aimed at feature implementation. Therefore, we use GPT-4o to classify
the intent based on the pull request description.
Only pull requests classified as "new feature" are
retained.
Verification by running unit tests For each instance, we first set up the environment and testbed.
We then apply the test patch and run the unit test
files involved in the test patch. Theoretically, some
unit tests should fail at this stage. After applying
the gold patch, we rerun the same unit tests. If the
configuration is correct, all unit tests should pass.
Unlike SWE-bench, we do not impose restrictions
on whether ImportError or AttributeError occurs before applying the gold patch, as these errors
are almost inevitable before new components are
implemented. Instead, to ensure data quality, we
exclude samples where tests remain in the failed
status after applying the gold patch. The status
of each test function before and after applying the
gold patch is recorded.

Task Collection and Filtering

Based on existing repository data, we crawl all pull
requests and consider those that include changes
to test files as possible task instances. Given our
focus on the incremental feature development task,
we introduce the following steps to obtain the final
task instances for FEA-Bench through filtering:
Extraction of new components For each task instance candidate, we perform parsing on all Python
scripts involved in the gold patch. We compare the
state before and after applying the patch to identify newly added components, including classes
3

After task collection and filtering, 83 out of 119
repositories collected by the method in Section
3.2 produce 1,401 task instances for new feature
implementation.

pip install -e .

4

FEA-Bench
Full
Lite

SWE-bench
Full
Verified

|Repositories|
|Tasks|

83
1401

48
200

12
2294

12
500

# Lines of oracle files
# Files edited
# Lines edited

2115.5
2.62
128.5

1366.8
1.54
68.1

1961.3
1.66
37.71

1488.2
1.24
14.32

# Lines of added components
% Added components
# Functions added
# Classes added

87.1
67.8
4.49
0.78

47.2
69.3
2.02
0

10.9
28.9
0.73
0.064

2.1
14.7
0.25
0.006

lite and SWE-bench verified is even more pronounced. These statistics indicate that the task
instances in FEA-Bench are primarily aimed at
implementing new features. In SWE-bench, the
average number of new functions is 0.73, indicating that its task instances mainly involve editing
existing code rather than incremental development.
Complex solutions While SWE-bench focuses
on fixing issues, which generally involve simpler
problems, the task instances in FEA-Bench exhibit
greater complexity. From Table 1, whether measured by the number of edited lines or edited files,
the solutions of task instances in FEA-Bench are
notably more complex than those in SWE-bench.

Table 1: Statistics for FEA-Bench and its lite subset,
as well as for SWE-bench and its verified subset. The
metrics include: 1) the number of task instances and involved repositories; 2) the average total number of lines
in all Python files involved in code changes (i.e., the
Oracle setting described in Section 4.2), and the average
number of edited files and lines; 3) the average number
of lines of new components, the average percentage of
new component lines relative to all edited lines, and the
average number of added functions and classes.

3.4

4

Experimental Design

4.1

Models

Due to its repository-level code generation characteristics, FEA-Bench requires models to have a
long context window. We evaluate representative
code LLMs and general-purpose LLMs with strong
foundational capabilities on the FEA-Bench. The
code LLMs used in our evaluation include CodeLlama, Codestral4 , Qwen2.5-Coder, and DeepSeekCoder-V2 (Roziere et al., 2023; Hui et al., 2024;
Zhu et al., 2024). For general-purpose LLMs,
we evaluate the performance of GPT-4, GPT-4o
(Achiam et al., 2023; Hurst et al., 2024) and
DeepSeek-V3 (Liu et al., 2024a), as well as models
with long chain-of-thought (CoT) capabilities such
as o1 and DeepSeek-R1 (Jaech et al., 2024; Guo
et al., 2025).

Benchmark Characteristics

Semi-guided software engineering task Although
the signatures for new components are provided,
the primary objective of the FEA-Bench is to evaluate the whole solution of new feature implementation. This is a comprehensive real-world software
engineering task, distinct from code completion.
As shown in Table 1, each instance in FEA-Bench
involves an average of 128.5 modified lines, with
87.1 lines attributed to the new components themselves. This indicates that approximately 41.4 lines
of changes are made elsewhere in the repository.
Implementing new features not only requires the
ability to generate code for specified new components but also necessitates making complementary
changes within the existing repository.
Lite version We have also curated a subset to
serve as a lite version of our dataset. This subset is
filtered based on criteria including higher quality
and lower difficulty. This lite version is particularly useful for evaluating systems that are computationally intensive and time-consuming. Detailed
information can be found in Section A.3.
New components driven generation task From
Table 1, we can observe that, on average, the number of lines for new components in each FEABench task instance is more than 8× that of SWEbench. Furthermore, the new components account
for approximately 67.8% of all edited lines in FEABench, compared to just 28.9% in SWE-bench.
The difference in this metric between FEA-Bench

4.2

Context

To explore the capabilities and potential limits of
LLMs in implementing new features within code
repositories, we construct different prompts from
several perspectives based on our collected data.
Each task instance is evaluated using various context settings to provide a comprehensive understanding of model performance.
New component hints In FEA-Bench, information about new components can be derived from
two sources: 1) signatures and documentation
of newly extracted functions and classes, and 2)
changes in non-Python files within the patch, which
often contain relevant information about the new
components. Based on this, we have two settings:
Brief. Only provides the signatures of new compo4

5

https://mistral.ai/en/news/codestral

FEA-Bench
Oracle
BM25 (27K)
Detailed Brief Detailed Brief

FEA-Bench lite
Oracle
BM25 (27K)
Detailed Brief Detailed Brief

Model

Size

Window

CodeLlama

13B
34B

16K
16K

0.14
0.57

0.43
0.57

×
×

×
×

0.0
0.0

0.0
0.0

×
×

×
×

Qwen2.5-Coder

14B
32B

32K
32K

3.57
4.43

3.57
3.64

3.71
3.85

2.93
2.78

3.5
6.0

4.5
5.5

3.5
2.0

2.5
2.5

Codestral-22B

22B

32K

0.86

0.93

1.43

1.36

0.5

1.0

0.0

0.0

DeepSeek-Coder-V2
DeepSeek-R1-Distill
DeepSeek-V3
DeepSeek-R1

16B
32B
671B
671B

128K
128K
64K
64K

0.21
3.78
8.14
9.92

0.29
4.07
6.92
8.35

0.57
4.78
8.21
10.49

0.36
4.21
7.64
9.85

0.0
5.5
14.5
14.5

0.5
7.5
10.5
14.5

0.0
7.0
13.0
12.0

0.5
5.5
12.0
13.5

128K
128K
128K
200K

4.71
6.14
1.93
7.28

4.21
5.57
1.86
6.57

3.14
5.28
2.28
6.78

2.86
4.50
2.57
6.64

6.0
5.0
2.0
10.0

6.5
5.0
3.5
12.5

2.0
4.0
1.0
5.0

1.0
3.5
2.0
7.0

GPT-4
GPT-4o
o1-mini
o1

Table 2: The resolved ratios on FEA-Bench (lite) task instances. The evaluation is conducted on single-round
generation outputs by each model and a task instance is considered resolved only if all unit tests are passed. The
prompt using BM25 retrieved files is limited to length of 27K tokens. This ensures that, with a maximum generation
of 4K tokens, the total length will not exceed 32K tokens, which is the context window limits of most tested models.
"Detailed" and "Brief" refer to the levels of hints regarding new components in prompt, as mentioned in Section 4.2.

5

nents. Detailed. Includes all the aforementioned
information.

Evaluation Results

The performance of LLMs The evaluation results
of FEA-Bench are presented in Table 2. It is observed that in Oracle and Detailed prompt settings,
the best resolved ratio of task instances is 9.92%,
indicating the poor performance of LLMs in the incremental development task at the repository level.
Generally, the models with larger parameter sizes
demonstrate better results. Among code LLMs,
Qwen2.5-Coder exhibited performance comparable to that of GPT-4, highlighting its superiority
in the domain of code generation. Despite this,
general-purpose LLMs with stronger foundational
capabilities can approach the performance of specialized code LLMs. For example, R1-Distill,
which shares the same underlying architecture as
Qwen2.5-Coder, showed competitive performance.
Among the models evaluated, the latest DeepSeekV3 and R1 models achieve the best performance,
significantly outperforming OpenAI’s GPT-4 and
o1 series. This underscores the importance of foundational capabilities in LLMs for repository-level
development tasks. Additionally, the performance
on the lite version is slightly higher, but the relative
trends remain largely consistent. When computational resources are limited, the metrics from FEABench lite can be used to reflect the performance
on the full benchmark.
The performance under different contexts As

Retrieval method Given the extensive amount
of code across multiple files in a repository, selective inclusion of file contents as context is necessary. Firstly, the README file and files containing
new components are always included in the context.
For other files, similar to SWE-bench, we divide
retrieval methods into: Oracle. Includes all files
involved in the patch in the context. BM25. Retrieves relevant files across the entire repository by
BM25 algorithm (Robertson et al., 2009) based on
the content of the pull request, and ranks them by
relevance and filling the context until reaching a
specified length.
Output format Generating an entire file can
lead to interruptions due to generation limits and
is costly. Therefore, our experiments offer two
edit-based generation settings: Natural. Generates
code edits in a natural format as pairs of beforeand-after snippets, which can be converted into
patches applicable to the code repository through
post-processing. Patch. Directly generates edits in
patch format. Since patches use line numbers for
fragment location, this setting includes line numbers in the context’s code content.
The details of prompt and experimental settings
are shown in Appendix B.
6

Precision Avg.
Recall Avg.
Recall All

BM25 (27K)
BM25 (40K)
Retrieval Metrics (%)
40.26
31.85
76.04
77.14
51.61
53.03
Resolved Ratio (%)
Detailed Brief Detailed

GPT-4
GPT-4o

3.14
5.28

2.86
4.50

3.14
4.78

Brief
2.78
4.64

shown in Table 2, we evaluate the performance of
LLMs under different settings of new component
hints and retrieval methods. Overall, detailed new
component hints lead to better model performance.
However, in the results from FEA-Bench lite, brief
hints that only provide signatures performed better. This discrepancy could be attributed to the lack
of structured presentation of new components and
their documentation within the prompt, as illustrated in Figure 6. Regarding retrieval methods, the
Oracle setting generally outperforms the BM25 setting, although the difference is not substantial. This
may be because code files containing new components, which are regarded as known conditions in
the FEA-Bench, ensure a certain baseline performance. Considering the simplest instances in the
dataset: those involving modifications to only one
code file. Since instances in FEA-Bench always
include new components, the unique code file is
known information. In this case, BM25 retrieved
files supplement additional information, which can
lead to better model performance compared to the
Oracle setting.

Discussion

6.1

Retrieved Files in Context

%Apply
Natural Patch

Qwen2.5-Coder(32B)
R1-Distill(32B)
GPT-4
GPT-4o
o1
DeepSeek-V3
DeepSeek-R1

44.82
55.75
59.10
66.38
57.03
69.09
73.16

12.92
19.06
33.26
19.49
-

%Resolved
Natural Patch
4.43
3.78
4.71
6.14
7.28
8.14
9.92

1.71
1.71
3.07
1.86
-

Table 4: The impact of output formats Natural and Patch.
We show the success rates of applying code edits to the
code repository and the final resolved ratios. The experiments on directly generating patches are conducted
only on the models shown in the first four columns.

Table 3: The retrieval metrics and the instance resolved
ratios under 27K and 40K token length limits of the
prompt in BM25 retrieval mode.

6

Model

where all involved files are recalled.
Although the recalls slightly improve at the limit
of 40K tokens, model performance decreases. This
indicates that current LLMs still struggle to extract
useful information from long contexts in repositorylevel code development tasks. To improve performance on FEA-Bench, enhancing the precision of
retrieval may be an effective approach than simply
increasing the context length.
6.2

Output Format of Edits

Direct repository-level code development outputs
edits rather than new code itself. How LLMs can
better generate edits remains an open question.
Therefore, we analyze the impact of output formats
using the two configurations described in Section
4.2. The two rightmost columns of Table 4 illustrate
a comparison between the Natural and the Patch
generation method, with the former demonstrating significantly higher performance. The possible
reason is that generating patches imposes stricter
formatting requirements, which current LLMs find
challenging to adhere to accurately. Therefore, the
main results presented in Table 2 adopt the performance by Natural generation method.
Whether using patches converted by converting
before-and-after code snippets in Natural mode or
directly generating patches in Patch mode, during
evaluation, these patches must be applied to the
repository. The success rates of the git apply are
shown in the middle two columns of Table 4. It
can be observed that the success rate in the Natural
prompt mode is significantly higher, contributing
to the superior performance of LLMs in Natural
mode. Further observation reveals a significant
positive correlation between the success rate of applying patches and the resolved ratio, regardless of
whether Natural or Patch mode is used. DeepSeek-

We aim to investigate whether providing more code
context helps LLMs improve new feature development. Therefore, we conducted experiments by
increasing the prompt limit from 27K to 40K tokens, which surpasses the original context window
limit of Qwen2.5-Coder but can contain more retrieved files. The results are presented in Table 3.
The evaluated models include GPT-4 and GPT-4o,
and we also report the average precision and recall
of Python files in the context relative to those in the
gold patch, as well as the proportion of instances
7

Agentless
%Reso. %Apply
DeepSeek-V3
GPT-4
GPT-4o
o1-mini
o1

9.0
4.5
14.0

87.5
69.5
90.5

Agentless-Lite
%Reso. %Apply
11.0
3.5
9.5
4.5
10.0

71.0
94.5
96.0
81.5
89.5

Oracle
%Reso. %Apply
14.5
6.0
5.0
2.0
10.0

70.5
54.0
60.0
32.5
49.5

BM25 (27K)
%Reso. %Apply
13.0
2.0
4.0
1.0
5.0

69.0
37.0
53.5
23.5
33.5

Table 5: The performance of Agentless on FEA-Bench lite, compared to the direct retrieval by Oracle and BM25.
"%Reso." refers to the resolved ratio of task instances, while "%Apply" indicates the success rate of applying the
generated code edits to the repository.

Figure 4: The resolved ratios grouped by the categories of the repositories.

R1, which performs the best on FEA-Bench, has
the highest values for both metrics. This indicates
that the format of code edits is a critical factor limiting the performance of LLMs on such tasks.
6.3

tories into several categories, as shown in Appendix
A.1. The performance of DeepSeek-R1, o1, and
GPT-4o across different categories is illustrated in
Figure 4. The resolved ratios of different models
vary across categories; task instances in the Testing category (from the repo: joke2k/faker) have
the highest resolved ratio, followed by the Internet
category. For the remaining categories, the pass
ratio of the three models are at a similar level.
Among the three LLMs, GPT-4o shows slightly
weaker performance compared to the other models,
but its trend is largely consistent with o1. Notably,
DeepSeek-R1 exhibits weaker performance in the
Testing category but significantly outperforms both
GPT-4o and o1 in all other categories. This suggests that integrating different models might further
enhance overall performance on FEA-Bench.

Evaluation of Agent Frameworks

To further evaluate the performance of current stateof-the-art methods on FEA-Bench, we conduct experiments on the lite subset using the cost-efficient
Agentless and Agentless-lite frameworks (Xia et al.,
2024). We compare the final performance of using these agents with that of directly constructing the context using Oracle and BM25 retrieval
methods, as shown in Table 5. Notably, Agentless improves the resolved ratio of task instances
over BM25 for most models, with the largest gains
observed for GPT-4o, o1-mini, and o1. This improvement strongly correlates with the increased
success rate of applying code edits, highlighting the
challenge of adhering to the required code editing
format, as discussed in Section 6.2. Overall, Agentless and Agentless-lite perform similarly, with no
significant advantage over the results under the
Oracle setting. This indicates that current methods still have substantial room for improvement in
repository-level new feature implementation.
6.4

6.5 Performances under Different Complexity
of New Components
To further investigate whether the implementation
of new components adds pressure on LLMs in completing feature implementation tasks, we examine
the relationship between the number of new functions and the number of resolved instances. The
number of added functions is more indicative of
the complexity of new components, as functions
are more atomic compared to classes. Figure 5 illustrates the distribution of task instances and those
solved by R1 with respect to the number of added
functions. Excluding instances where the number

Performances across Repositories

To further analyze LLMs’ performance at a finer
granularity, we examine resolved ratios across different categories of repositories. We classify reposi8

Limitations
Our constructed data and experiments have certain limitations. First, our benchmark includes
only Python repositories, as Python projects are
easier to execute and generally follow consistent
testing frameworks. Second, the quantity of highquality data suitable for repository-level incremental development is limited. High-quality and usable pull requests for new feature development are
relatively scarce. Many repository-level code developments for implementing new functionalities
were committed during the early stages of repositories, without going through the rigorous code
review process typical of the open-source community, resulting in lower data quality that cannot be
utilized. Furthermore, the software’s early-stage
developments might not even have been conducted
using the GitHub platform, posing a challenge for
data collection and utilization. Consequently, FEABench, which is built on publicly available data and
subjected to stringent filtering, may exhibit certain
scenario limitations.
Due to the long context involved in repositorylevel code development, the cost of conducting
experiments using LLMs is relatively high. Therefore, the experimental results are based on a single round generation, akin to Pass@1, which may
introduce a certain level of bias into the results.
Additionally, given the scarcity of API resources
for models like DeepSeek-V3 and R1, some results
in the main experiments presented in Table 2 are
missing. We hope that more affordable models
similar to DeepSeek can be further developed to
facilitate research and applications in the field of
repository-level code development.

Figure 5: Histogram of the number of added functions
both in all task instances and resolved task instances
by DeepSeek-R1 (under Natural and Detailed prompt
settings).

of added functions is zero (i.e., adding only classes
for storing variables), it is evident that the resolved
ratio decreases as the number of added functions
increases. The resolved ratio is 18.96% when the
number of added functions is 1, 8.24% when it is
2, and 5.47% when it is greater than or equal to
3. This indicates that implementing new features
is a more challenging task than fixing bugs, which
constitute the majority of instances in SWE-bench.
Moreover, the more complex the new components,
the higher the difficulty of successful implementation.

7

Conclusion

In this paper, we introduce FEA-Bench, a novel
benchmark for evaluating the repository-level incremental code development capabilities of large
language models (LLMs). Our benchmark focuses
on the critical task of implementing new features
by adding new components to existing code repositories. Through our comprehensive dataset and
rigorous evaluation, we demonstrate that current
LLMs face significant challenges in this domain.
We also analyzed that the retrieval method of files,
the output format, the repository itself, and the
complexity of new components all impact the implementation of new features. Our work highlights
the need for further advancements in LLMs’ reasoning and generation capabilities to better address
real-world software engineering tasks. We hope
that FEA-Bench will serve as a valuable resource
for the research community, driving progress in
this important area.

Ethics Statement
We collected the data from publicly available
Github repositories only for research purposes. All
the repositories have licenses that allow free software use. LLMs are used only for classification
during the construction of the FEA-Bench dataset,
so no harmful information can be created in the
dataset. The dataset and code for our proposed
method will be made publicly available for academic research. However, we should note that
the inference results of the task instances from the
benchmark may contain code that is harmful to
computer systems. Evaluation by docker is recommended, just like SWE-bench.
Additionally, the ChatGPT platform was used as
9

an AI assistant for refining the paper writing.

Dan Hendrycks, Steven Basart, Saurav Kadavath, Mantas Mazeika, Akul Arora, Ethan Guo, Collin Burns,
Samir Puranik, Horace He, Dawn Song, et al. 2021.
Measuring coding challenge competence with apps.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2105.09938.

Acknowledgments
This work was supported by National Science and
Technology Major Project (No. 2022ZD0116308)
and National Natural Science Foundation of China
(62036001) . The corresponding author is Xin
Zhang and Houfeng Wang.

Binyuan Hui, Jian Yang, Zeyu Cui, Jiaxi Yang, Dayiheng Liu, Lei Zhang, Tianyu Liu, Jiajun Zhang,
Bowen Yu, Keming Lu, et al. 2024. Qwen2. 5-coder
technical report. ArXiv preprint, abs/2409.12186.
Aaron Hurst, Adam Lerer, Adam P Goucher, Adam
Perelman, Aditya Ramesh, Aidan Clark, AJ Ostrow, Akila Welihinda, Alan Hayes, Alec Radford,
et al. 2024. Gpt-4o system card. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2410.21276.

References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2303.08774.

Aaron Jaech, Adam Kalai, Adam Lerer, Adam Richardson, Ahmed El-Kishky, Aiden Low, Alec Helyar,
Aleksander Madry, Alex Beutel, Alex Carney, et al.
2024. Openai o1 system card. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2412.16720.

Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten
Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David Dohan, Ellen
Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al.
2021. Program synthesis with large language models.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2108.07732.

Naman Jain, King Han, Alex Gu, Wen-Ding Li, Fanjia
Yan, Tianjun Zhang, Sida Wang, Armando SolarLezama, Koushik Sen, and Ion Stoica. 2024. Livecodebench: Holistic and contamination free evaluation of large language models for code. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2403.07974.

Ramakrishna Bairi, Atharv Sonwane, Aditya Kanade,
Arun Iyer, Suresh Parthasarathy, Sriram Rajamani,
B Ashok, and Shashank Shet. 2024. Codeplan:
Repository-level coding using llms and planning.
Proceedings of the ACM on Software Engineering,
1(FSE):675–698.

Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig,
Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R
Narasimhan. 2024. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In The Twelfth
International Conference on Learning Representations.

Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan,
Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan,
Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg
Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large language models trained on code. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2107.03374.

Harshit Joshi, José Pablo Cambronero Sánchez, Sumit
Gulwani, Vu Le, Gust Verbruggen, and Ivan Radicek.
2023. Repair is nearly generation: Multilingual program repair with llms. In Thirty-Seventh AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI 2023, ThirtyFifth Conference on Innovative Applications of Artificial Intelligence, IAAI 2023, Thirteenth Symposium
on Educational Advances in Artificial Intelligence,
EAAI 2023, Washington, DC, USA, February 7-14,
2023, pages 5131–5140. AAAI Press.

Arghavan Moradi Dakhel, Vahid Majdinasab, Amin
Nikanjam, Foutse Khomh, Michel C Desmarais, and
Zhen Ming Jack Jiang. 2023. Github copilot ai pair
programmer: Asset or liability? Journal of Systems
and Software, 203:111734.
Xueying Du, Mingwei Liu, Kaixin Wang, Hanlin Wang,
Junwei Liu, Yixuan Chen, Jiayi Feng, Chaofeng
Sha, Xin Peng, and Yiling Lou. 2023. Classeval: A manually-crafted benchmark for evaluating
llms on class-level code generation. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2308.01861.

Jia Li, Ge Li, Zhuo Li, Zhi Jin, Xing Hu, Kechi Zhang,
and Zhiyi Fu. 2023a. Codeeditor: Learning to edit
source code with pre-trained models. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology,
32(6):1–22.

Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Haowei Zhang, Junxiao Song,
Ruoyu Zhang, Runxin Xu, Qihao Zhu, Shirong Ma,
Peiyi Wang, Xiao Bi, et al. 2025. Deepseek-r1: Incentivizing reasoning capability in llms via reinforcement learning. ArXiv preprint, abs/2501.12948.

Jia Li, Ge Li, Xuanming Zhang, Yihong Dong, and
Zhi Jin. 2024a. Evocodebench: An evolving code
generation benchmark aligned with real-world code
repositories. ArXiv preprint, abs/2404.00599.

Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie,
Kai Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen, Xiao
Bi, Yu Wu, YK Li, et al. 2024. Deepseek-coder:
When the large language model meets programming–
the rise of code intelligence. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2401.14196.

Jia Li, Ge Li, Yunfei Zhao, Yongmin Li, Huanyu
Liu, Hao Zhu, Lecheng Wang, Kaibo Liu, Zheng
Fang, Lanshen Wang, et al. 2024b. Deveval:
A manually-annotated code generation benchmark
aligned with real-world code repositories. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2405.19856.

10

Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas
Muennighoff, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao Mou, Marc
Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim, et al.
2023b. Starcoder: may the source be with you!
ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.06161.

Yanlin Wang, Yanli Wang, Daya Guo, Jiachi Chen,
Ruikai Zhang, Yuchi Ma, and Zibin Zheng. 2024.
Rlcoder: Reinforcement learning for repository-level
code completion. ArXiv preprint, abs/2407.19487.
Yaoxiang Wang, Haoling Li, Xin Zhang, Jie Wu, Xiao
Liu, Wenxiang Hu, Zhongxin Guo, Yangyu Huang,
Ying Xin, Yujiu Yang, et al. 2025. Epicoder: Encompassing diversity and complexity in code generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2501.04694.

Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang,
Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi
Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, et al. 2024a.
Deepseek-v3 technical report. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2412.19437.

Yuxiang Wei, Zhe Wang, Jiawei Liu, Yifeng Ding, and
Lingming Zhang. 2024. Magicoder: Empowering
code generation with oss-instruct. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning.

Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and Lingming Zhang. 2023a. Is your code generated by chatgpt really correct? rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 36: Annual
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2023, NeurIPS 2023, New Orleans, LA, USA,
December 10 - 16, 2023.

Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and
Lingming Zhang. 2024. Agentless: Demystifying llm-based software engineering agents. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2407.01489.
Frank F. Xu, Uri Alon, Graham Neubig, and Vincent Josua Hellendoorn. 2022. A systematic evaluation of
large language models of code. In Proceedings of the
6th ACM SIGPLAN International Symposium on Machine Programming, MAPS 2022, page 1–10, New
York, NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.

Siyao Liu, He Zhu, Jerry Liu, Shulin Xin, Aoyan Li, Rui
Long, Li Chen, Jack Yang, Jinxiang Xia, ZY Peng,
et al. 2024b. Fullstack bench: Evaluating llms as full
stack coder. ArXiv preprint, abs/2412.00535.
Tianyang Liu, Canwen Xu, and Julian McAuley.
2023b. Repobench: Benchmarking repository-level
code auto-completion systems. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2306.03091.

Jian Yang, Jiajun Zhang, Jiaxi Yang, Ke Jin, Lei Zhang,
Qiyao Peng, Ken Deng, Yibo Miao, Tianyu Liu, Zeyu
Cui, et al. 2024a. Execrepobench: Multi-level executable code completion evaluation. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2412.11990.

Junyu Luo, Weizhi Zhang, Ye Yuan, Yusheng Zhao, Junwei Yang, Yiyang Gu, Bohan Wu, Binqi Chen, Ziyue
Qiao, Qingqing Long, et al. 2025. Large language
model agent: A survey on methodology, applications
and challenges. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.21460.

John Yang, Carlos E Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and
Ofir Press. 2024b. Swe-agent: Agent-computer interfaces enable automated software engineering. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2405.15793.

Ziyang Luo, Can Xu, Pu Zhao, Qingfeng Sun, Xiubo Geng, Wenxiang Hu, Chongyang Tao, Jing Ma,
Qingwei Lin, and Daxin Jiang. 2023. Wizardcoder:
Empowering code large language models with evolinstruct. ArXiv preprint, abs/2306.08568.

Hao Yu, Bo Shen, Dezhi Ran, Jiaxin Zhang, Qi Zhang,
Yuchi Ma, Guangtai Liang, Ying Li, Qianxiang
Wang, and Tao Xie. 2024a. Codereval: A benchmark of pragmatic code generation with generative
pre-trained models. In Proceedings of the 46th
IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software
Engineering, pages 1–12.

Zhenyu Pan, Rongyu Cao, Yongchang Cao, Yingwei
Ma, Binhua Li, Fei Huang, Han Liu, and Yongbin
Li. 2024. Codev-bench: How do llms understand
developer-centric code completion? ArXiv preprint,
abs/2410.01353.

Zhaojian Yu, Xin Zhang, Ning Shang, Yangyu Huang,
Can Xu, Yishujie Zhao, Wenxiang Hu, and Qiufeng
Yin. 2024b. WaveCoder: Widespread and versatile
enhancement for code large language models by instruction tuning. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 5140–5153,
Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Computational
Linguistics.

Stephen Robertson, Hugo Zaragoza, et al. 2009. The
probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and beyond. Foundations and Trends® in Information Retrieval, 3(4):333–389.
Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten
Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan, Yossi Adi,
Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, et al. 2023.
Code llama: Open foundation models for code.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2308.12950.

Fengji Zhang, Bei Chen, Yue Zhang, Jacky Keung, Jin
Liu, Daoguang Zan, Yi Mao, Jian-Guang Lou, and
Weizhu Chen. 2023. RepoCoder: Repository-level
code completion through iterative retrieval and generation. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 2471–2484, Singapore. Association for Computational Linguistics.

Yuling Shi, Songsong Wang, Chengcheng Wan, and
Xiaodong Gu. 2024. From code to correctness: Closing the last mile of code generation with hierarchical
debugging. ArXiv preprint, abs/2410.01215.

11

Initially, we filter pull requests (PRs) based on
whether they were merged, resulting in the number
of PRs shown in the "# PR" column of Table 7.
Next, we excluded PRs without any test files, leaving only those PRs with the necessary conditions
to be considered valid task instances, as indicated
by the "# All tasks" column. Further filtering was
conducted according to the third and fourth stages
illustrated in Figure 3, retaining only those PRs that
introduce at least one new component and are classified as "new feature" types by GPT-4o based on
the PR content. Additionally, instances with patch
lengths exceeding 8K (8192) tokens are excluded
to remove long-tail distributions and noise. The
remaining candidate task instances are listed under
the "# Candidates" column. This filtering step does
not exist in SWE-bench, leading to a smaller number of candidate task instances in our benchmark
dataset.

Yuntong Zhang, Haifeng Ruan, Zhiyu Fan, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. Autocoderover: Autonomous program improvement. In Proceedings
of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium
on Software Testing and Analysis, ISSTA 2024, page
1592–1604, New York, NY, USA. Association for
Computing Machinery.
Dewu Zheng, Yanlin Wang, Ensheng Shi, Ruikai Zhang,
Yuchi Ma, Hongyu Zhang, and Zibin Zheng. 2024.
Towards more realistic evaluation of llm-based code
generation: an experimental study and beyond. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2406.06918.
Qihao Zhu, Daya Guo, Zhihong Shao, Dejian Yang,
Peiyi Wang, Runxin Xu, Y Wu, Yukun Li, Huazuo
Gao, Shirong Ma, et al. 2024. Deepseek-coder-v2:
Breaking the barrier of closed-source models in code
intelligence. ArXiv preprint, abs/2406.11931.
Terry Yue Zhuo, Minh Chien Vu, Jenny Chim, Han Hu,
Wenhao Yu, Ratnadira Widyasari, Imam Nur Bani
Yusuf, Haolan Zhan, Junda He, Indraneil Paul, et al.
2024. Bigcodebench: Benchmarking code generation with diverse function calls and complex instructions. ArXiv preprint, abs/2406.15877.

A

Dataset Details

A.1

Repositories

Finally, for each instance, we apply the test
patch to the repository in the base commit state
to verify that unit tests could accurately evaluate
the corresponding code edits. Similar to SWEbench, our pipeline annotates each instance with
the corresponding repository version and provides
environment and installation configurations based
on versions. For repositories included in SWEbench, we directly utilize their environment setup
and test configurations grouped by versions. For
other repositories, minimal installation instructions
(pip install -e .) and basic pytest testing
configurations are used. Initially, we run the unit
tests directly and observe the pass status. Subsequently, we apply the gold patch from the PR and
execute the unit tests again. We allowed errors such
as AttributeError and ImportError in the first
test, which are common when new components are
not yet implemented, but these errors are not permitted in SWE-bench data collection pipeline. For
the second test after applying the gold patch, any
FAILED status is unacceptable to ensure data quality. After this execution-based filtering process, the
final task instances constitute the FEA-Bench task
instances, as shown in the "# in Full" column of
Table 7.

The task instances in FEA-Bench are derived
from 83 Python packages corresponding to GitHub
repositories. For each package, we obtained its
license information and topic classification from
the PyPI website. For packages missing the topic
attribute, we utilized their README files and employed GPT-4o to classify them into topics available on the PyPI website5 . Finally, considering
the distribution of the topics of task instances in
FEA-Bench, we further simplify the topics to several categories to facilitate data visualization and
analysis, as presented in Section 6.4.
The relevant information regarding the involved
code repositories is summarized in Table 6.
A.2

Construction Details

Table 7 shows the number of remaining task instances for each stage during the data collection
process. In Section 3.2, we mentioned that after the
fast validation step, including the 18 repositories
from SWE-bench, a total of 119 repositories (18 +
101) are available for further data collection. On
this basis, we crawl the pull requests from GitHub
to obtain code changes. Files with names containing words like test are identified as unit test files
executable by pytest.
5

We only present information for repositories that
have at least one instance in FEA-Bench. Specifically, out of the 119 repositories identified during
the repository collection phase, only 83 repositories
contain at least one task instance.

https://pypi.org/classifiers/

12

Premise

Request
Content

You will be provided with a partial code base and an feature request which requires a
new feature to add in the code repository.
<request>
Pull Request Title + Pull Request Body
Comments before first commit
</request>

Issue
Content
(If any)

Here is the discussion in the issues of the pull request.
<issues>
Issue Title + Issue Body
Comments before first commit
</issues>

Doc
Changes
(If any)

To implement the new features mentioned above, some design in this repository need
to be modified, as the modification in document files:
<description changes>
Gold patches that are not from .py files
</description changes>

There are several new functions or classes that need to be implemented, using the definitions below:
<definitions>
[start of new definitions in file 1]
(definition of namespace of new component 1:)
signature of new component 1 in file 1
+ docstring of new component 1 in file 1
(definition of namespace of new component 2:)
New
+ docstring of new component 2 in file 1
Components signature of new component 2 in file 1
...
[end of new definitions in file 1]
[start of new definitions in file 2]
...
</definitions>

Code Files

All the involved readme files and code files are listed below
with their contents. If a file's content is indicated as empty, it
means that the file does not yet exist in the current repository
and needs to be created with new content.
<code>
[start of file 1]
All content in file 1; In "Patch" mode, line number is added
[end of file 1]
[start of file 2]
...
</code>

Output
Instruction

README files

De-duplication

Files with new
components

Files Retrieved
("Oracle" or BM25)

"Natural" Format Output Instructions / "Patch" Format Instructions

Figure 6: The prompt for the inference of the task instances.

A.3

FEA-Bench lite

• The feature request descriptions contain fewer
than 40 words.

The feature implementation task proposed in this
study, as one primary type of repository-level incremental code development tasks, require LLMs
with long context capabilities to perform reasoning
over extensive file contents. Such inference is computationally expensive. Considering the possible
evaluation of multi-round code generation systems,
it is necessary to select a high-quality subset for
more efficient evaluation. Therefore, we establish
stricter criteria to curate a higher-quality, lowerdifficulty FEA-Bench lite subset.
Instances meeting any of the following lowquality criteria are excluded:

• The instance involves cascading issues or commit SHA-256 references.
• The descriptions contain images.
Additionally, to limit task difficulty, instances
meeting any of the following criteria are also excluded:
• Involve deleting code files.
• Involve more than three code files.
• The gold patch contains More than 10 code
change hunks.
13

• Natural-formatted code change content exceeding 4K(4096) tokens.

For larger open-source and all closed-source
models, specifically DeepSeek-V3, R1, and OpenAI series models, we invoke their APIs for inference. The versions of the OpenAI models used are
as follows:

• Contain new class(es).
• Contain more than ten added functions.

• GPT-4: gpt-4-turbo-2024-04-09
Beyond the lite subset, we also expect to collaborate with professional software engineers to
annotate a verified subset, similar to SWE-bench
Verified6 .

• GPT-4o: gpt-4o-2024-05-13
• o1: o1-2024-12-17
• o1-mini: o1-mini-2024-09-12

B

Inference

B.1

Prompt

When possible, the temperature and top-p settings are fixed at 0.2 and 0.95, respectively. For
DeepSeek-V3 and R1, the max output tokens are
8K (8192). For o1 and o1-mini, the max output
tokens is 100,000 and 65,536 (64K), respectively.
During the inference process, LLMs perform a
single generation for each task instance in FEABench, and the output is converted into a patch
for evaluation. The evaluation tools are adapted
from the SWE-bench evaluation scripts which are
based on docker, ensuring safety and easy use for
the evaluation process.

In Section 4.2, we present different prompt settings for the context of inference. A more detailed
prompt structure is illustrated in Figure 6. The
prompt is constructed using the first two items
shown in Figure 2 as known input information. The
feature request includes both pull request content
and issue content. Information about new components and related code files is listed straightforwardly within the prompt.
In Figure 6, the italicized text indicates placeholders that need to be filled with specific data
of each task instance, while the other text represents standard prompt content. Red text highlights
additional information for detailed hints of new
components, and blue text indicates parts that need
to be modified when directly generating patches as
results.
In this study, we provide two formats for generating code edits: Natural and Patch. The corresponding output instructions are illustrated in Figure 7.
To ensure that the models produce outputs in the
correct format, both modes are accompanied by
detailed instructions and examples.
We include several different prompts mentioned
above for each task instance in the dataset files.
B.2

Generation Configurations

For models with fewer than 32 billion parameters,
we utilized the vLLM framework 7 on an 8-GPU
NVIDIA A100 workstation, employing tensor parallelism for inference. The maximum number of
generated tokens is limited to 4096, matching the
generation length limits of used OpenAI GPT-4
and GPT-4o in our experiments.
6
https://openai.com/index/introducing-swe-benchverified/
7
https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm

14

"Natural" Format Output Instructions

"Patch" Format Instructions

Please solve the feature request with adding the functions or classes between
the <definitions> and </definitions>. You do not need to output any changes
or edits for description files like .md or .rst files.
I need you to make multiple edits across one or more files in a repository to
implement a specific feature or improvement mentioned above.
For each edit, output the changes in the following format:

Please solve the feature request with adding the functions or classes between
the <definitions> and </definitions>. You do not need to output any changes
or edits for description files like .md or .rst files.
I need you to make multiple edits across one or more files in a repository to
implement a specific feature or improvement mentioned above.
The edits should be output in patch format.

```
<edit>
[start of the snippet before editing in <file_path>]
<code_before_edit>
[end of the snippet before editing in <file_path>]

Here is an example of a patch file. It consists of changes to the code base.
It specifies the file names, the line numbers of each change, and the removed
and added lines.
A single patch file can contain changes to multiple files.
<patch>
diff --git a/src/code.py b/src/code.py
--- a/src/code.py
+++ b/src/code.py
@@ -1,11 +1,14 @@
def factorial(a):
+ assert type(a) == int and a >= 0
res = 1
- while a >= 0:
+ while a >= 2:
res *= a
+
a -= 1
return res
#
#
#
#
def exact_dividion(x, y):
+ assert type(x) == type(y) == int and x > 0 and y > 0
return x % y == 0
diff --git a/src/demo.py b/src/demo.py
new file mode 100644
--- /dev/null
+++ b/src/demo.py
@@ -0,0 +1,2 @@
+from code import factorial
+print(factorial(5))
</patch>

[start of the snippet after editing in <file_path>]
<code_after_edit>
[end of the snippet after editing in <file_path>]
</edit>
```
Notes:
- The <file_path> is the relative path of the file being edited.
- The <code_before_edit> snippet should include several lines before and
after the modified region, unless the file was originally empty.
- If a file was originally empty, leave <code_before_edit> blank but ensure
<code_after_edit> includes the new content.
- Ensure the edits are sequential and address all necessary changes to achieve
the requested feature.
Here is an example of the output format:
<edit>
[start of the snippet before editing in src/code.py]
def factorial(a):
res = 1
while a >= 0:
res *= a
return res
[end of the snippet before editing in src/code.py]
[start of the snippet after editing in src/code.py]
def factorial(a):
assert type(a) == int and a >= 0
res = 1
while a >= 2:
res *= a
a -= 1
return res
[end of the snippet after editing in src/code.py]
</edit>

I need you to solve the provided feature request by generating a single patch
file that I can apply directly to this repository using git apply. Please respond
with a single patch file in the format shown above.
Respond below:

<edit>
[start of the snippet before editing in src/code.py]
def exact_dividion(x, y):
return x % y == 0
[end of the snippet before editing in src/code.py]
[start of the snippet after editing in src/code.py]
def exact_dividion(x, y):
assert type(x) == type(y) == int and x > 0 and y > 0
return x % y == 0
[end of the snippet after editing in src/code.py]
</edit>
<edit>
[start of the snippet before editing in src/demo.py]
[end of the snippet before editing in src/demo.py]
[start of the snippet after editing in src/demo.py]
from code import factorial
print(factorial(5))
[end of the snippet after editing in src/demo.py]
</edit>
I need you to solve the feature request with a series of edits in the format
shown above. Respond below:

Figure 7: The output instructions at the rear of the inference prompt.

15

Repo Name
astropy/astropy
django/django
matplotlib/matplotlib
mwaskom/seaborn
pallets/flask
pvlib/pvlib-python
pydata/xarray
pydicom/pydicom
pylint-dev/astroid
pylint-dev/pylint
pyvista/pyvista
scikit-learn/scikit-learn
sphinx-doc/sphinx
sqlfluff/sqlfluff
sympy/sympy
Aider-AI/aider
Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot
DLR-RM/stable-baselines3
EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness
Project-MONAI/MONAI
PyThaiNLP/pythainlp
RDFLib/rdflib
Textualize/rich
Textualize/textual
TileDB-Inc/TileDB-Py
astronomer/astronomer-cosmos
atlassian-api/atlassian-python-api
aws-cloudformation/cfn-lint
aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python
aws/sagemaker-python-sdk
biopragmatics/bioregistry
boto/boto3
boto/botocore
cocotb/cocotb
conan-io/conan
deepset-ai/haystack
docker/docker-py
dpkp/kafka-python
embeddings-benchmark/mteb
facebookresearch/hydra
fairlearn/fairlearn
falconry/falcon
google-deepmind/optax
googleapis/python-aiplatform
googleapis/python-bigquery
gradio-app/gradio
graphql-python/graphene
huggingface/accelerate
huggingface/datasets
huggingface/huggingface_hub
huggingface/pytorch-image-models
huggingface/trl
joblib/joblib
joke2k/faker
lark-parser/lark
minio/minio-py
open-mmlab/mmengine
openvinotoolkit/datumaro
pgmpy/pgmpy
pre-commit/pre-commit
prometheus/client_python
prompt-toolkit/python-prompt-toolkit
pygments/pygments
pyocd/pyOCD
pypa/hatch
pyro-ppl/pyro
python-hyper/h2
roboflow/supervision
rytilahti/python-miio
saleweaver/python-amazon-sp-api
scrapy/scrapy
scverse/scanpy
slackapi/bolt-python
slackapi/python-slack-sdk
snowflakedb/snowflake-connector-python
softlayer/softlayer-python
spec-first/connexion
statsmodels/statsmodels
tfranzel/drf-spectacular
tobymao/sqlglot
tornadoweb/tornado
tortoise/tortoise-orm
wagtail/wagtail

License
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-3-Clause
Other
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-3-Clause
Apache-2.0
Others
LGPL-2.1
GPL-2.0
MIT
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-2-Clause
MIT
Others
Apache-2.0
GPL-3.0
MIT
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
BSD-3-Clause
MIT
MIT
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
MIT-0
MIT-0
Apache-2.0
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
BSD-3-Clause
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
MIT
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
BSD-3-Clause
MIT
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
MIT
MIT
MIT
Apache-2.0
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-2-Clause
Apache-2.0
MIT
Apache-2.0
MIT
MIT
GPL-3.0
MIT
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-3-Clause
MIT
MIT
Apache-2.0
MIT
Apache-2.0
BSD-3-Clause
BSD-3-Clause
MIT
Apache-2.0
Apache-2.0
BSD-3-Clause

Topic
Scientific/Engineering::Astronomy
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Scientific/Engineering::Visualization
Scientific/Engineering::Visualization
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Scientific/Engineering::Physics
Scientific/Engineering::Information Analysis
Scientific/Engineering::Medical Science Apps.
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Quality Assurance
Scientific/Engineering::Information Analysis
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Text Processing::Markup
Software Development::Quality Assurance
Scientific/Engineering::Mathematics
Software Development::Code Generators
Communications::Chat
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Scientific/Engineering::Medical Science Apps.
Text Processing::Linguistic
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::User Interfaces
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Build Tools
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Software Development::Quality Assurance
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Scientific/Engineering::Bio-Informatics
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Electronic Design Automation (EDA)
Software Development::Build Tools
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Scientific/Engineering::Human Machine Interfaces
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Testing
Text Processing::Linguistic
Software Development::Libraries
Utilities
Scientific/Engineering::Image Processing
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Software Development::Quality Assurance
System::Monitoring
Software Development::User Interfaces
Software Development::Documentation
Software Development::Debuggers
Software Development::Build Tools
Scientific/Engineering::Artificial Intelligence
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Scientific/Engineering::Image Processing
Home Automation
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Software Development::Libraries
Scientific/Engineering::Bio-Informatics
Communications::Chat
Communications::Chat
Software Development::Libraries
Software Development::Libraries
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Scientific/Engineering::Information Analysis
Software Development::Documentation
Database::Database Engines/Servers
Internet::WWW/HTTP
Database::Front-Ends
Internet::WWW/HTTP

Category
Physics
Internet
Other
Other
Internet
Physics
Other
Medical
Libraries
Other
Other
AI
Other
Other
Mathematics
Other
Other
AI
AI
Medical
Other
Libraries
Libraries
Other
Libraries
Build Tools
Internet
Other
Libraries
AI
Other
Libraries
Libraries
Other
Build Tools
AI
Libraries
Libraries
AI
Libraries
AI
Internet
AI
AI
Internet
Other
Libraries
AI
AI
AI
Libraries
AI
Libraries
Testing
Other
Libraries
Other
Other
AI
Other
Other
Other
Other
Other
Build Tools
AI
Internet
Other
Other
Internet
Libraries
Other
Other
Other
Libraries
Libraries
Internet
Other
Other
Database
Internet
Database
Internet

Table 6: The information of the repositories involved in FEABench.

16

Source
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
SWE-Bench
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation
Fast-Validation

Repository Name
sympy/sympy
joke2k/faker
conan-io/conan
tobymao/sqlglot
scikit-learn/scikit-learn
pvlib/pvlib-python
deepset-ai/haystack
Project-MONAI/MONAI
matplotlib/matplotlib
sphinx-doc/sphinx
googleapis/python-aiplatform
astropy/astropy
Textualize/textual
falconry/falcon
softlayer/softlayer-python
Textualize/rich
rytilahti/python-miio
sqlfluff/sqlfluff
google-deepmind/optax
pydata/xarray
boto/boto3
roboflow/supervision
RDFLib/rdflib
huggingface/datasets
aws-cloudformation/cfn-lint
boto/botocore
pgmpy/pgmpy
huggingface/huggingface_hub
prometheus/client_python
pypa/hatch
scrapy/scrapy
slackapi/python-slack-sdk
django/django
pydicom/pydicom
pylint-dev/pylint
embeddings-benchmark/mteb
python-hyper/h2
mwaskom/seaborn
pyvista/pyvista
dpkp/kafka-python
lark-parser/lark
astronomer/astronomer-cosmos
fairlearn/fairlearn
huggingface/accelerate
docker/docker-py
huggingface/trl
joblib/joblib
open-mmlab/mmengine
openvinotoolkit/datumaro
pygments/pygments
pyocd/pyOCD
pyro-ppl/pyro
tortoise/tortoise-orm
DLR-RM/stable-baselines3
EleutherAI/lm-evaluation-harness
PyThaiNLP/pythainlp
TileDB-Inc/TileDB-Py
atlassian-api/atlassian-python-api
aws/sagemaker-python-sdk
googleapis/python-bigquery
gradio-app/gradio
graphql-python/graphene
prompt-toolkit/python-prompt-toolkit
snowflakedb/snowflake-connector-python
spec-first/connexion
statsmodels/statsmodels
tornadoweb/tornado
pallets/flask
pylint-dev/astroid
Aider-AI/aider
Cog-Creators/Red-DiscordBot
aws-powertools/powertools-lambda-python
biopragmatics/bioregistry
cocotb/cocotb
facebookresearch/hydra
huggingface/pytorch-image-models
minio/minio-py
pre-commit/pre-commit
saleweaver/python-amazon-sp-api
scverse/scanpy
slackapi/bolt-python
tfranzel/drf-spectacular
wagtail/wagtail

Class (Short)
Mathematics
Testing
Build Tools
Database
AI
Physics
AI
Medical
Other
Other
AI
Physics
Other
Internet
Libraries
Libraries
Other
Other
AI
Other
Libraries
Other
Libraries
AI
Other
Libraries
AI
AI
Other
Build Tools
Libraries
Other
Internet
Medical
Other
AI
Internet
Other
Other
Libraries
Other
Build Tools
AI
AI
Libraries
AI
Libraries
Other
Other
Other
Other
AI
Database
AI
AI
Other
Libraries
Internet
AI
Internet
Other
Libraries
Other
Libraries
Internet
Other
Internet
Internet
Libraries
Other
Other
Libraries
Other
Other
Libraries
Libraries
Libraries
Other
Internet
Other
Other
Other
Internet

Max PR No.
27454
2144
17534
4597
30289
2336
8669
8275
29140
13196
4830
17525
5444
2425
2207
3548
1993
6534
1164
9879
4371
1773
3025
7342
3898
3331
1887
2683
1080
1860
6598
1627
18807
2195
10168
1730
1291
3798
7045
2442
1503
1439
1472
3293
3297
2550
1641
1620
1689
2837
1734
3413
1840
2069
2609
1056
2128
1476
4987
2102
10271
1583
1949
2127
2011
9462
3452
5640
2669
2767
6499
5814
1346
4345
3005
2398
1472
3382
1638
3427
1234
1362
12732

# PR
12857
1386
6185
2463
17489
1072
4132
3468
18163
5798
2927
11205
2205
1279
1277
1142
979
3448
805
4310
757
1021
1562
4118
2583
2145
902
1559
429
721
3253
764
18482
979
4431
1050
1072
1093
3837
937
467
754
937
1607
1554
1181
701
1013
1388
886
954
2302
607
534
961
667
1184
849
3219
1372
4707
68
713
1311
879
3793
1573
2604
1810
346
4060
4398
784
2137
1301
551
890
1222
1027
1535
446
345
7070

# All tasks
6034
518
3715
1996
4174
444
1438
1809
4057
1597
826
4292
819
499
661
283
249
2079
174
1838
130
94
370
792
790
777
368
586
134
313
846
266
725
494
1859
137
144
469
1149
212
135
270
229
352
538
248
250
350
521
346
175
1038
283
199
52
269
488
49
715
358
1210
19
49
466
327
1444
341
404
301
31
157
517
156
493
442
85
242
527
21
516
159
135
1531

# Candidates
819
186
473
185
186
102
317
463
164
126
241
405
139
67
105
41
46
296
54
234
38
30
21
99
92
83
76
130
14
34
53
29
32
42
79
15
11
40
292
17
10
39
29
67
24
29
11
59
98
79
11
369
46
23
9
39
34
14
116
65
81
2
3
22
31
121
16
17
8
1
18
115
28
34
35
17
14
23
9
35
9
12
213

# in Full
239
126
124
116
83
52
49
37
34
30
29
27
27
27
26
24
23
19
19
17
17
14
13
12
11
11
11
10
10
9
9
9
7
7
7
7
6
5
5
5
5
4
4
4
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

# in Lite
46
8
23
14
9
10
8
1
7
4
1
8
1
3
2
4
1
2
3
2
2
7
2
2
0
0
2
1
1
1
2
0
1
1
1
1
0
0
2
0
2
1
1
2
1
0
0
1
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
0
0
2
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
0

Table 7: Statistics of how many PRs (task instances) are left during the data collection procedures.

17

