arXiv:2406.11612v1 [cs.LG] 17 Jun 2024

Long Code Arena: a Set of Benchmarks
for Long-Context Code Models

Egor Bogomolov1,2, Aleksandra Eliseeva1 , Timur Galimzyanov1, Evgeniy Glukhov1 ,
Anton Shapkin1 , Maria Tigina1 , Yaroslav Golubev1 , Alexander Kovrigin1 ,
Arie van Deursen2 , Maliheh Izadi2 , Timofey Bryksin1
1
JetBrains Research, 2 Delft University of Technology
lca@jetbrains.com

Abstract
Nowadays, the fields of code and natural language processing are evolving rapidly.
In particular, models become better at processing long context windows — supported context sizes have increased by orders of magnitude over the last few years.
However, there is a shortage of benchmarks for code processing that go beyond a
single file of context, while the most popular ones are limited to a single method.
With this work, we aim to close this gap by introducing Long Code Arena, a
suite of six benchmarks for code processing tasks that require project-wide context. These tasks cover different aspects of code processing: library-based code
generation, CI builds repair, project-level code completion, commit message generation, bug localization, and module summarization. For each task, we provide a
manually verified dataset for testing, an evaluation suite, and open-source baseline
solutions based on popular LLMs to showcase the usage of the dataset and to simplify adoption by other researchers. We publish the benchmark page on HuggingFace Spaces with the leaderboard, links to HuggingFace Hub for all the datasets,
and link to the GitHub repository with baselines: https://huggingface.co/
spaces/JetBrains-Research/long-code-arena.

1 Introduction
The Machine Learning for Software Engineering (ML4SE) domain has gained popularity over the
recent years, with increasingly more powerful models for text and code processing becoming available. According to a recent survey [24], the most common ML4SE tasks studied in the literature
are code generation, code completion, code summarization, and program repair. Unfortunately, the
majority of existing benchmarks for assessing ML4SE models have two major limitations: a short
length of the available context and a limited resemblance of the practical use cases [22, 31].
Two common trends in modern natural language processing (NLP) are retrieval-augmented generation [17] and utilization of long contexts [56]. Retrieval-augmented approaches [5, 28] can base
their predictions on information from large corpora of data using various search techniques, while
the development of new architectures [46, 16, 19] and techniques [11, 3] allows models to process
tens of thousands or even millions of tokens. Both long-context and retrieval-augmented models
can in theory utilize information from an entire software project. However, most existing ML4SE
benchmarks operate with short code snippets — methods or at most files. For example, two most
popular code generation datasets—HumanEval [6] and MBPP [2]—require models to comprehend
fewer than 1,000 tokens and generate a short function, usually no more than 100 tokens long.
Researchers already do work on extending available context for ML4SE benchmarks. As an example, several recent works investigate code completion at the repository level [39, 63]. However,
their usage of software data does not account for the iterative nature of software development: while
Preprint. Under review.

solving the code completion task in a single file, the benchmarks allow models to use the rest of
the project without restrictions. At the same time, other parts of the project can be written after the
studied file and utilize its contents, giving the model hints that will not be present in the practical
use-case.
In this work, we present Long Code Arena, a suite of novel benchmarks for ML4SE models that
cover six tasks: library-based code generation, CI builds repair, project-level code completion, commit message generation, bug localization, and module summarization. We design all the tasks and
datasets in such a way that they require models to use information from a project module or the
entire project to successfully complete the task. For all the tasks, samples used for evaluation are
rigorously filtered and then manually verified to ensure the best possible data quality. The data for
all the tasks comes from open-source repositories with permissive licenses. We also provide baseline solutions for all the tasks based on popular models, although this work does not aim at solving
the tasks — baselines are provided solely to aid future research.
In the paper, we describe the data collection methodology for each task, describe the evaluation setup,
and briefly discuss the implemented baselines. At the end of the paper, we also discuss related work
and the drawbacks of the existing datasets. In the Supplementary materials, we thoroughly describe
the structure of the datasets and provide a detailed description of the baselines. We open-source
the implementations of baselines along with code for evaluation, they can be found on GitHub1 and
serve as an example of using the collected datasets. You can access the leaderboard and links to all
the datasets (published via HuggingFace Hub) in our HuggingFace Space.2

2 Long Code Arena
Long Code Arena is a suite of six benchmarks that cover different aspects of code processing: generation, repair, completion, summarization, processing diffs. For each task, we gather an evaluation
dataset of around a hundred to a thousand examples that requires models to operate with source
code at the scale of a module or an entire repository. For most tasks, we focus on Python code
due to its popularity and to manually verify the correctness of the samples. However, the collection
methodology for all the tasks allows extending the benchmarks with more languages in the future.
All the datasets we collect in Long Code Arena are based on data from open-source GitHub repositories — source code, commit history, issues, as well as build data from GitHub Actions. First, we
extract a common corpus of repositories for further processing. To do so, we get the list of repositories via GitHub Search [10] that pass the following filters used in other works to ensure the quality
of the data [30]: at least 1,000 commits, at least ten contributors, issues, and stars, at least 10,000
lines of code, not a fork, last commit after 01.06.2023, and a permissive license (we use the most
popular permissive licenses [59] — MIT, Apache-2.0, BSD-3-Clause, and BSD-2-Clause). After the
filtering, we are left with 4,343 repositories that we then download via GitHub API along with issues
and pull requests data. For the CI builds repair task, we also retrieve GitHub Actions logs for some
repositories, which we describe further. The only task that we base on the existing dataset is commit
message generation, for which we find samples with large commits and long commit messages in
the recent CommitChronicle dataset [13].
After the initial data collection stage, we prepare evaluation datasets for each of the six tasks separately. For this, we apply further task-specific filters to the collected data, and then manually examine
the samples to ensure their correctness. The following subsections contain in-detail descriptions of
all the benchmarks.
2.1 Library-based Code Generation
Task description. The first task in our work is a novel library-based code generation task. Given a
task description and access to the contents of a software library, the model should generate a single
file that solves the task heavily utilizing methods from the given library. The problem is motivated
by the need of programmers to write code that utilizes the present dependencies and in-project APIs
rather than adding new dependencies and increasing project complexity.
1

Long Code Arena baselines: https://github.com/JetBrains-Research/lca-baselines
Long Code Arena leaderboard:
https://huggingface.co/spaces/JetBrains-Research/
long-code-arena
2

2

In contrast to library-based code generation, existing code generation benchmarks require models to
produce self-sufficient code snippets, such as solutions to algorithmic problems [6, 2, 23], domainspecific code [36], one-liners [62], etc. Among the existing works, the setup of the library-based
code generation task is similar to repository-level code completion benchmarks that evaluate API
completion [39, 63]. Contrary to them, our benchmark requires models to generate an entire program
based on an instruction in natural language instead of a single API call or a single line.
Collection methodology. To prepare the benchmark, we first extract usage examples from the
Python projects that we collected by finding directories in the project roots that contain “examples”
in their name. Such usage examples are provided by the library authors in order to show the capabilities and use cases of their libraries.
After collecting the examples, we filter them: (i) remove examples shorter than 100 or longer than
40,000 characters (excluding comments), (ii) remove examples that have fewer than 400 characters
of comments in order to then write high-quality instruction for generation, (iii) remove examples
that use fewer than ten API calls specific to the given library. To identify library-specific API calls,
we extract names of all functions and classes defined in the mined Python projects and count as
library-specific only the ones that appear in a single library. These filters result in 150 files (usage
examples) from 62 libraries, with each file heavily relying on the APIs of the respective project.
To create instructions, we first run the selected 150 files through GPT-4 [1], prompting it to generate
an instruction for generating the respective file. This leaves us with step-by-step instructions that the
LLM should then follow to generate a script that utilizes the library at hand. Then, we manually fix
each instruction in order to reduce hinting to specific library methods and ensure its correctness.
To build contexts for generation, benchmark users have access to contents of the libraries that include
on average 254 Python files with 2.5M characters and 2,242 unique class and method names. The
respective medians are 164 files, 1.4M characters, and 1,412 names.
Metrics. Following the previous work on metrics for assessing code generation quality [14], we
employ ChrF [47] to measure how similar the generated code is to the original human-written one.
Additionally, to assess usage of the respective library, we measure API Recall calculated as the
ratio of library-specific API calls (called functions, instantiated classes, used constants) made by the
ground truth solution that also appear in the generated program.
Baselines. We evaluate six models: proprietary GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 [1], and instructiontuned versions of open-source CodeLlama-7B, CodeLlama-70B [50], Mistral-7B [26], and Mixtral8x7B [27]. In the first setup, we assess the models’ ability to generate code based solely on instruction, without access to the library. In the second setup, we accompany the instruction with 20
method and class names most similar to the instruction according to BM-25 [48]. In both setups,
GPT-4 shows the best quality with the API Recall of 37%, while open-source models without library
context achieve the API Recall of 7–11%. BM-25 retrieval allows to improve the API Recall for all
models except for GPT-4 by 3–6%, leaving a huge space for further improvement.
2.2 CI Builds Repair
Task description. The second task in our benchmark suite is fixing failing CI builds. This task asks
models to generate a patch that fixes a real-life issue in a CI setup. The minimal set of data for the
task consists of a repository snapshot at the commit that caused the failure of the workflow (failed
commit hereafter) and the logs of the failed step. The task can also be performed in a simplified
oracle setup by prompting a model with a list of files and code blocks in them to change. In this
case, the code blocks come from the ground-truth fixing diff provided in the dataset. An important
feature of this task is run-based evaluation: we utilize GitHub Actions [18] to run the generated fixes
and assess their correctness.
Collection methodology. To collect the data, we iterate over the 100 largest downloaded Python
repositories and get a full list of action runs in each repo started in the last 90 days, as older GitHub
Actions logs are not available. The downloaded data contains action status (failed or successful) and
links to the action runs. Then, we group actions by branch and workflow names, limiting them to
up to three branches per repository and three workflows per branch to ensure data diversity. This
way, we get the time-ordered list of actions for each branch-workflow combination. From it, we get
3

a list of pairs of consecutive actions (workflow runs) where the first commit caused a failure of the
GitHub workflow, and the next one was successful. Thus, we get a set of failed-success pairs of
actions for each branch-workflow pair. We trim the set to three pairs per branch-workflow pair for
data diversity.
For each extracted pair of actions, we download logs of the specific failed step of the failed workflow
run, the diff between the failed and successful commits, and the meta-information of the failed
commit. We filter out runs that take more than ten minutes, workflows that need tokens/secrets to
run, and diffs lacking modifications of code files. Then, we assess the datapoints, verifying that logs
contained all the necessary information to fix the issue, and grade the difficulty of solving datapoints
on a 1–3 scale, with 1 corresponding to pure formatting problems, 2 — local (one-line) errors, 3
— requiring understanding of the complex file- or project-level dependencies to perform changes in
multiple files.
To ensure that the benchmark works as intended, we re-run CI with and without the presumably correct fix that we got during the collection stage. We filter out the workflows that no longer constitute
a failed-fixed pair. Finally, to isolate the problem to a single failure reason, we delete all .yaml files
in the .github/workflows/ directory except for the failing workflow.
The total size of the final dataset is 77 items: 35 with difficulty 1, 14 — with difficulty 2, and 28 —
with difficulty 3. The median length of the logs is 6.5K symbols with an average of 145K symbols
due to a few extremely long logs. The mean and median for the number of files in the repositories is
610 and 240, for the number of lines — 170K and 56K, number of symbols — 7.5M and 2.4M.
Evaluation. We provide the code for evaluation in our repository with baselines.3 After a model
generates a patch for fixing the build, the benchmark uploads it to a separate branch in the forked
GitHub repository and runs a CI workflow there. Then, it collects the results of the CI run, allowing
us to compute the number of resolved runs and to check the arising mistakes. The target metric for
the CI builds repair task is the percentage of successfully fixed builds.
Baselines. We run several LLMs on the CI builds repair benchmark. We use an oracle setup for
the baselines, prompting the models to change the code blocks that were edited in the ground-truth
fixing diff. To pass context from the build logs, we find the first occurrence of the case-insensitive
substring “error” in the logs and take a seven-line context around this occurrence (three lines before
and after). If the substring is not found, we pass seven last lines of the log. The instruction then
reads as follows: “Fix CI in order for tests to pass. Relevant logs: {relevant_logs}”. We prompt the
LLM to modify these code sections to align with the given instructions and pass all the sections in a
single request. The LLM replies with the edited versions of the code sections that are converted into
a diff and returned to the benchmark. The results for open-source models such as Mistral-7B [26]
and various versions of CodeLlama-Instruct [50] range from 4% to 9% of successful fixes, while
GPT-3.5 is able to resolve 17% of samples.
2.3 Project-Level Code Completion
Task description. The next task in the suite is project-level code completion, for now targeting the
completion of single lines. We formulate the task as follows: given relevant information from the
project, which we call context, and a prefix of the completion file, one needs to generate the next
line in this file. While there exist other repository-level completion datasets [63, 39], we use project
history from Git to mimic the real-world use case and avoid possible data leakages between files that
arise when files in the context are written after the completed file and rely on the completed code.
On top of that, we introduce a fine-grained classification of the completed lines by the used APIs.
Collection methodology. To create the dataset, we process the collected Python projects, traversing
their Git histories to collect commits that were done after 01.01.2022. We extract newly added
files from them, filtering out files with fewer than 200 lines or more than 2,000 lines. To collect
the context for each file, we checkout the respective parent commit and save the contents of all the
code and text files (e.g., build files, documentation), constituting the repository as it was when the
commit was made. Each datapoint contains the file for completion, a list of lines to complete with
3

Code for running evaluation of CI builds repair: https://github.com/JetBrains-Research/
lca-baselines/tree/main/ci-builds-repair/ci-builds-repair-benchmark

4

their categories (see the categorization below), and a repository snapshot that can be used to build
the context.
We split our dataset into four parts based on the total size of .py files in the repository snapshot. As
the reference for such a division, we chose the CodeLlama model [50], which has a context window
of size 16K and about three characters per token. Based on this, we have four sets of samples with
the following limits on the total number of characters in the context .py files: small-context set from
0 to 16K × 3 = 48K characters; medium-context set from 48K to 192K characters; large-context set
from 192K to 768K characters; huge-context set from 768K characters. We downsample datapoints
to five datapoints per repository, and the repositories to 75 per set to ensure data diversity. The sizes
of the four sets are 144, 224, 270, and 296 datapoints, respectively.
For each datapoint, we also provide a list of lines for completion—35 lines on average—since evaluating a code model on every line of a file is extremely resource-consuming. Moreover, not all lines
are equally hard to complete; e.g., function declaration lines can be challenging due to uncertainty,
whereas loop definition can be straightforward. Taking that into account, we introduce a classification of the code lines into six categories depending on the used functions and classes. Categories
committed, inproject, and infile refer to where the used functions/classes are defined: in the same
commit as the completed file, in the project snapshot before the commit, or right in the completed
file. Common category is assigned to the lines that contain common functions such as main or
get. We classify lines as non-informative if they are too short, too long, contain prints, etc. (see
Appendix C for the full definition), and assign the random category to the rest of the lines.
While each line can fall into multiple categories based on the content, we only assign the “most
difficult” category to each line in the following order (from difficult to easy): committed, inproject,
infile, common. We then sample on average ten completion lines per datapoint for informative
classes and five lines per datapoint for non-informative and random classes. Thus, for each file in
the dataset, we have multiple lines that the model should complete. Total numbers of completion
lines are 4,686, 8,676, 9,631, and 9,810 for each of four sets, respectively.
Metrics. The main metric for the project-level code completion task is the exact match of generated
lines per category. This is a proportion of correct predictions calculated separately for each of the
categories. The prediction is correct if it matches the ground truth after removing leading and trailing
whitespaces from both.
Baselines. We evaluate CodeLlama-7B [50] and DeepSeek Coder of sizes 1.3B and 6.7B [21]. For
each model, we evaluate several strategies for composing the input context from the repository files
(see Appendix C for details). Among them, building the context from files closest in the file tree to
the target file works best. The boosts for Exact Match for such a context composer for CodeLlama7B on the medium context set are +16% for the infile lines and +53% for the inproject lines compared
to using only the target file as context.
2.4 Commit Message Generation
Task description. The fourth benchmark that we present is commit message generation (CMG)
for large commits. In CMG, a model should generate a natural language description of changes
performed in a single commit. The changes can be represented in different ways — in various diff
formats, as separate versions of each file before and after the changes took place, and others. Moreover, models can utilize information from unchanged project files to better understand how changes
impacted the project. CMG is a well-established task in academic research [54] and a prominent
feature in developer tools [9, 8], however, researchers often limit the scope to short diffs [13], leaving the performance on larger commits unexplored. Moreover, the quality of commit messages from
open-source repositories—the most common data source—is notoriously mixed [57]. We bridge
these two gaps with our novel CMG benchmark, manually curated and tailored for larger commits.
Collection methodology. We use the CommitChronicle [13] dataset as the main data source. As the
dataset aligns with our needs, we chose to use it rather than rebuild a dataset of commits from scratch
from the repositories of Long Code Arena. CommitChronicle is a large-scale dataset with 10.7M
commits from permissively licensed GitHub repositories in 20 programming languages. Notably,
CommitChronicle omits restrictive data filtering steps, such as strict limits on the maximum length
of code changes, thus fitting perfectly for our use case that targets larger diffs. As we are building a
5

benchmark, we use only the test subset of CommitChronicle. To make manual filtering possible, for
now, we limit the work to the Python language and thus consider only the subset of the test set that
includes changes to at least one .py file. This results in 172K commits from 455 repositories.
With CommitChronicle encompassing a wide array of commits, we follow the best practices from
previous works [13, 44, 33] to filter data and reduce the number of low-quality samples. Filtering
criteria include minimum length in words and lines, message format, presence of hashes (for the
exact criteria, see Appendix D). After the filtering, we retain 3,260 commits. Since we aim to target
commits with larger changes, after the initial filtering, we only keep samples where the number of
characters in diffs related to .py files is ≥ 3,000 characters. This leaves us with 858 commits that
we further review manually to keep only those where the commit message provides a comprehensive description of all changes without introducing any external information and the changes are
meaningful and non-trivial.
After manual filtering, our resulting dataset comprises 163 commits from 34 repositories. We follow
the same format as the original CommitChronicle [13] dataset and include commit diffs, commit
messages, and relevant metadata that allows tracing each commit back to GitHub. To facilitate
further experiments with constructing context for the CMG task, we provide the sources for all the
repositories. Diffs in the dataset comprise from 67 to 800 lines, or 3.3K to 41K characters. When
taking the full content of the changed files and other project files into account, the context spans
from 4K to 5M lines, or 144K to 156M characters.
Metrics. We employ metrics used in previous works, including BLEU [45], ROUGE [35],
ChrF [47], and BERTScore [64]. For BERTScore, we additionally include the normalized scores as
proposed by the authors of the original metric [4] to allow for easier interpretation.
Baselines. We evaluate a range of proprietary and open-source models, including multiple OpenAI
models, Mixtral-8x7B [27], Mistral-7B [26], variations of DeepSeek Coder [21], versions of CodeLLaMA [50], and fine-tuned CodeT5 [60]. GPT-4 Turbo shows the best results with ChrF of 34.4.
The best performing open-source model is Mixtral-8x7B with ChrF of 32, followed by Mistral-7B.
2.5 Bug Localization
Task description. The next problem addressed by the proposed benchmark is the bug localization
task. This problem can be formulated as follows: given an issue with a bug description and a
repository snapshot in a state where the bug is reproducible, identify the files within the repository
that need to be modified to address the reported bug. Although this is a subset of the larger bug-fixing
problem, partially covered by SWE-Bench [29], bug localization requires its own separate evaluation.
This independent assessment can provide a better understanding of the various approaches and their
efficiency in identifying the precise location of bugs within the large code bases.
Collection methodology. To build the dataset for the bug localization task, we process the previously collected 8M issues and 7M PRs from GitHub with more than 34.4M comments. The provided
issue data contains issue descriptions and labels (e.g., “bug”), by which we can determine the reason behind creating the issue. For pull requests, we extract code diffs and link them to issues they
resolve. We use regular expressions to parse links in PRs’ titles, description comments, as well as
issue comments (e.g., “fixes #24” or “#25 resolved”).
We filter the data to ensure data quality and limit the subset to programming languages familiar to
the authors for manual labeling (see Appendix E for the exact procedure). After this, we are left
with 7,479 pairs of bug issues and pull requests linked to them. Out of them, 4,339 modify Python
files, 2,522 — Java files, and 618 — Kotlin files. For each language, we manually examine a subset
of datapoints to see that they meet the following criteria: the issue description is complete and fully
describes the introduced changes, while the changes do indeed fix the issue and do not produce code
irrelevant to it. Since manual labelling of the entire dataset of 7,479 samples is very time-consuming,
we carry out the following procedure. For each language—Python, Java, and Kotlin—we manually
examine samples iterating over the repositories from the most starred to the least starred, and stop
after selecting 50 good datapoints per language. Importantly, for the initial set of 7,479 PRs, the
median number of changed files is one. Given that, we select half the samples from fixes that only
touch a single file, and half the samples from fixes that change from two to ten files. In terms of the
context size, the median number of files in the repository is 331, with an average of 1K files. Each
6

file typically contains 1.5K tokens. Additionally, issues within the repository generally consist of
approximately 150 words, equating to around 400 tokens.
Metrics. The task of bug localization is similar to information retrieval, so we use common metrics
from this domain: recall at k (R@k), precision at k (P@k), F1 score (f1-score), and mean average
precision (MAP). We select k to be equal to 1 for changes that require modification of a single file,
and 2 for the rest of the changes. We compute metrics for these two cases separately and report both.
Baselines. First, we evaluate several retrieval-based approaches: TF-IDF, embeddings from
CodeT5 [61] and CodeBERT [15], embedding models GTE [34] and Mistral [43]. We use cosine
distance between vectors for ranking. Furthermore, we evaluate BM25 [48] retrieval provided by
llama-index [37]. GTE model demonstrates the best result with 0.33 MAP, followed by Mistral with
0.3, and TF-IDF with the BPE tokenizer [52] with 0.27. The results for the rest of the models are
lower than 0.25 MAP.
We also evaluate two chat models — GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. We prompt them to indicate from one
to five bugged files using the issue description and the full list of files from the repository. If the
resulting prompt does not fit into the context size, we split the file list into several queries, followed
by the final one that combines all outputs and asks to finalize the result. These approaches show
better scores compared to the retrieval-based approaches, with GPT-4 achieving 0.39 MAP.
2.6 Module Summarization
Task description. The last benchmark in the suite is dedicated to the task of summarizing project
modules into natural language. We formulate the module summarization task as follows: based on
the module’s or project’s source code and intent (a one-sentence description of the expected documentation content), the model should write its textual documentation. This task greatly increases
the context size available to the models compared to the existing benchmarks that cover method- or
class-level summarization [25, 40, 42]. The source of inspiration for the module summarization task
is the fact that large projects often include high-level materials, such as quick start guides, tutorials,
module documentation, and usage instructions. The task aims to alleviate the time-consuming and
routine process of creating these materials.
Collection methodology. To collect the dataset, we gather documentation files—files with extensions .md, .txt, and .rst—that are located in the docs directory from the collected Python repositories. We then identify the associated code for each file by parsing the documentation and extracting links to files and directories with source code. Associated code files can encompass the entire
project, particularly for quick-start documentation, or specific files for narrower cases. Searching
for relevant code is essential to prevent the inclusion of text documents not related to specific parts
of the source code, such as installation guides. If a file does not correspond to any module, we skip
it. Subsequently, we remove documents that are fewer than ten lines of text without considering
markup (i.e., in plain text format). After the filtering steps, we are left with 461 files.
If a file passes all automatic filters, we review it manually before including into the dataset, ensuring
that the text summarizes source code, and the other way around — information from source code
is sufficient to write the documentation. This resulted in the final dataset of 216 files from 43
repositories, for each of which we manually specify an intent based on the documentation headers
and contents.
For each datapoint, we attach the relevant context that was automatically extracted, as well as all the
code from the repository with documentation files excluded. This enables researchers to experiment
with different context collection techniques. The average length of the target documentation is 2,549
tokens (8,807 characters). The average length of the code context greatly depends on the sample and
can be very large, as sometimes the context might include the code of the entire repository. Thus,
the datapoint with minimum length of the relevant code context has 327 tokens, while the average
and median length of code context are 18,572 and 21,286 tokens, respectively.
Metrics. Previous work [49] shows that out of n-gram-based metrics, the ChrF metric [47] works
best for code summarization tasks. However, it was assessed for short texts, and our experience
shows low sensitivity when discriminating long files. To overcome this limitation, we propose using
LLMs as scalable proxies for human assessors, similar to the work of Chiang and Lee [7].
7

Our proposed metric CompScore feeds an LLM the relevant code and two versions of documentation: the gold standard and the model-generated text. The LLM estimates the probability of one
documentation better explaining and fitting the code than the other. To mitigate potential ordering
effects in model responses, CompScore calculates the probability that the generated documentation
is superior by averaging the results of two queries, swapping the order of the generated and reference
documentation. The CompScore ranges from 0 to 100, with ground truth documentation receiving
50.
This scoring method not only provides a robust measure of documentation quality but also incorporates the flexibility and semantic evaluation capacity of human judgment. We use a local instance of
Mistral-7B [26] with a greedy generation algorithm to make the evaluation both cost-efficient and
reproducible across various computational environments.
Baselines. We conduct all our experiments within a zero-shot setting. For every distinct sample,
the model uses information about the target file name, intent, and the code we consider relevant
(truncated to the supported length in tokens). We then compare the generated documentation with
the ground truth provided in the dataset. We evaluate a range of proprietary and open-source models,
including multiple OpenAI models, versions of Mixtral [27], Mistral [26], CodeLLaMA [50], and
LLaMA [58]. GPT-4 shows the best results with the CompScore of 57.3. The best performing
open-source model is Llama2-70B with 48.2, followed by Llama2-13B and Mistral-7B-v0.3.

3 Related Work
While there exist plenty of ML4SE datasets and even benchmark collections [41], most of them require models to operate with rather short contexts, around the size of a single method, which hinders
the evaluation of novel long context models. Code generation datasets [6, 2, 38, 23, 20, 62] require
models to process up to several paragraphs of the problem statement and then generate a short program (one line to one file). Existing datasets for code summarization [25, 41] target documentation
in a single method, meaning that both input and output size are below several hundred tokens. Previously developed commit message generation benchmarks [54, 13, 51] contain significantly shorter
messages and diffs compared to Long Code Arena.
For code completion, recently, researchers introduced two benchmarks that operate at the repository
scale: RepoEval [63] and RepoBench [39], also focusing on the completion of a single line. Compared to these benchmarks, we introduce a fine-grained classification of the completed lines and
prevent possible data leakages by traversing Git history.
SWE-bench [29] is a recent benchmark that requires models to fix issues in real-world programming
projects. Long Code Arena covers a more diverse set of tasks, the most similar being CI builds repair,
which focuses on builds in general rather than tests, and bug localization, which is a sub-task of the
SWE-bench objective that we evaluate on a broader set of languages: Python, Java, and Kotlin.
The most notable benchmarks for long context models include Long Range Arena [55] and
Scrolls [53]. Our work builds the first such benchmark focusing on ML4SE tasks, while Long
Range Arena includes synthetic problems and Scrolls focuses on natural language processing.

4 Limitations and Future Work
In order to gather benchmarks for Long Code Arena, we had to make several design decisions that
can impact the generalizability. First, we base the benchmarks on open-source data. This allows
researchers to experiment with various context-collection techniques because they have access to
source code data. On the other hand, modern LLMs use most available open-source data for training,
and such reliance can lead to data contamination, which in turn can skew the evaluation results.
We argue that the tasks that we choose are less prone to models memorizing training data: there
is no direct link between answers to benchmark tasks and raw repository data that modern models
use for training. For example, while models could have seen documentation of specific libraries
during training, currently it is unlikely that it was present side by side with the source code of the
respective modules. The most memorization-prone task in our suite is code completion, but for it,
we use historic data from Git repositories, which may become changed or overridden by the moment
LLMs’ training data is scraped.
8

In order to allow for manual examination of the collected data and to keep the benchmarks consistent,
for most tasks we focus on datasets of Python code. Fortunately, the data preparation pipeline for
all the tasks can be reused to produce datasets for other languages. The most complex step in this
case will be manual verification and filtering of the data to ensure quality and correctness. In order
to meet the quality requirement, we leave extension of datasets to other languages for future work.
In addition to extending datasets to other programming languages, future work includes collecting
data for fine-tuning models for particular tasks and evaluating more models on the benchmarks. In
order to assist other researchers with the latter, we open-source the code for the baseline solutions.

5 Conclusion
In this paper, we present the Long Code Arena. The goal of this work is to stimulate research in MLbased solutions for realistic software engineering tasks. In particular, we design a series of tasks that
require taking a complex context into account, such as full projects, libraries and their usage, and
coarse-grained components. Our work presents six benchmarks related to code generation, repair,
completion, and summarization. For each task, we carefully design and manually curate evaluation
data, metrics for assessing the results, and baseline solutions based on the pre-trained models. Our
experiments show that the tasks are within reach, but far from solved. We hope and expect that our
Long Code Arena will encourage researchers in ML4SE and NLP communities to advance the field
of ML-enabled software engineering.

References
[1] Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni
Aleman, Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman, Shyamal Anadkat, et al. GPT-4
technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774, 2023.
[2] Jacob Austin, Augustus Odena, Maxwell Nye, Maarten Bosma, Henryk Michalewski, David
Dohan, Ellen Jiang, Carrie Cai, Michael Terry, Quoc Le, et al. Program synthesis with large
language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07732, 2021.
[3] Amanda Bertsch, Uri Alon, Graham Neubig, and Matthew Gormley. Unlimiformer: Longrange transformers with unlimited length input. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 36, 2024.
[4] BERTScore Normalization, 2024. https://github.com/Tiiiger/bert_score/blob/
master/journal/rescale_baseline.md.
[5] Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoffmann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie
Millican, George Bm Van Den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark,
et al. Improving language models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In International
conference on machine learning, pages 2206–2240. PMLR, 2022.
[6] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared
Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. Evaluating large
language models trained on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374, 2021.
[7] Cheng-Han Chiang and Hung-yi Lee. Can large language models be an alternative to human
evaluations? arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.01937, 2023.
[8] Commit message generation feature in GitHub Copilot, 2024.
https://devblogs.
microsoft.com/visualstudio/write-your-git-commits-with-github-copilot/.
[9] Commit message generation feature in JetBrains IDEs, 2024. https://blog.jetbrains.
com/idea/2023/06/ai-assistant-in-jetbrains-ides/.
[10] Ozren Dabic, Emad Aghajani, and Gabriele Bavota. Sampling projects in GitHub for MSR
studies. In 18th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Mining Software Repositories, MSR
2021, pages 560–564. IEEE, 2021.
[11] Tri Dao. FlashAttention-2: Faster attention with better parallelism and work partitioning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.08691, 2023.
[12] Tim Dettmers, Mike Lewis, Younes Belkada, and Luke Zettlemoyer. GPT3.int8(): 8-bit matrix
multiplication for transformers at scale. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
35:30318–30332, 2022.
9

[13] Aleksandra Eliseeva, Yaroslav Sokolov, Egor Bogomolov, Yaroslav Golubev, Danny Dig, and
Timofey Bryksin. From commit message generation to history-aware commit message completion. In 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automated Software Engineering
(ASE), pages 723–735. IEEE, 2023.
[14] Mikhail Evtikhiev, Egor Bogomolov, Yaroslav Sokolov, and Timofey Bryksin. Out of the
BLEU: how should we assess quality of the code generation models? Journal of Systems and
Software, 203:111741, 2023.
[15] Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou,
Bing Qin, Ting Liu, Daxin Jiang, et al. CodeBERT: A pre-trained model for programming and
natural languages. arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.08155, 2020.
[16] Dan Fu, Simran Arora, Jessica Grogan, Isys Johnson, Evan Sabri Eyuboglu, Armin Thomas,
Benjamin Spector, Michael Poli, Atri Rudra, and Christopher Ré. Monarch Mixer: A simple
sub-quadratic GEMM-based architecture. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36, 2024.
[17] Yunfan Gao, Yun Xiong, Xinyu Gao, Kangxiang Jia, Jinliu Pan, Yuxi Bi, Yi Dai, Jiawei Sun,
and Haofen Wang. Retrieval-augmented generation for large language models: A survey. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2312.10997, 2023.
[18] GitHub Actions, 2024. https://github.com/features/actions.
[19] Albert Gu and Tri Dao. Mamba: Linear-time sequence modeling with selective state spaces.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.00752, 2023.
[20] Alex Gu, Baptiste Rozière, Hugh Leather, Armando Solar-Lezama, Gabriel Synnaeve, and
Sida I. Wang. CRUXEval: A benchmark for code reasoning, understanding and execution.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.03065, 2024.
[21] Daya Guo, Qihao Zhu, Dejian Yang, Zhenda Xie, Kai Dong, Wentao Zhang, Guanting Chen,
Xiao Bi, Y Wu, YK Li, et al. DeepSeek-Coder: When the large language model meets
programming–the rise of code intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.14196, 2024.
[22] Vincent J Hellendoorn, Sebastian Proksch, Harald C Gall, and Alberto Bacchelli. When code
completion fails: A case study on real-world completions. In 2019 IEEE/ACM 41st International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE), pages 960–970. IEEE, 2019.
[23] Dan Hendrycks, Steven Basart, Saurav Kadavath, Mantas Mazeika, Akul Arora, Ethan Guo,
Collin Burns, Samir Puranik, Horace He, Dawn Song, et al. Measuring coding challenge
competence with APPS. In Thirty-fifth Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
Datasets and Benchmarks Track (Round 2), 2021.
[24] Xinyi Hou, Yanjie Zhao, Yue Liu, Zhou Yang, Kailong Wang, Li Li, Xiapu Luo, David Lo,
John Grundy, and Haoyu Wang. Large language models for software engineering: A systematic
literature review. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.10620, 2023.
[25] Hamel Husain, Ho-Hsiang Wu, Tiferet Gazit, Miltiadis Allamanis, and Marc Brockschmidt.
CodeSearchNet challenge: Evaluating the state of semantic code search. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1909.09436, 2019.
[26] Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Arthur Mensch, Chris Bamford, Devendra Singh
Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Florian Bressand, Gianna Lengyel, Guillaume Lample, Lucile
Saulnier, et al. Mistral 7b. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06825, 2023.
[27] Albert Q Jiang, Alexandre Sablayrolles, Antoine Roux, Arthur Mensch, Blanche Savary, Chris
Bamford, Devendra Singh Chaplot, Diego de las Casas, Emma Bou Hanna, Florian Bressand,
et al. Mixtral of experts. arXiv preprint arXiv:2401.04088, 2024.
[28] Zhengbao Jiang, Frank F Xu, Luyu Gao, Zhiqing Sun, Qian Liu, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Yiming
Yang, Jamie Callan, and Graham Neubig. Active retrieval augmented generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2305.06983, 2023.
[29] Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and
Karthik Narasimhan. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world GitHub issues?
arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.06770, 2023.
[30] Eirini Kalliamvakou, Georgios Gousios, Kelly Blincoe, Leif Singer, Daniel M German, and
Daniela Damian. The promises and perils of mining GitHub. In Proceedings of the 11th
working conference on mining software repositories, pages 92–101, 2014.
10

[31] Vladimir Kovalenko, Nava Tintarev, Evgeny Pasynkov, Christian Bird, and Alberto Bacchelli.
Does reviewer recommendation help developers? IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering,
46(7):710–731, 2018.
[32] Jiawei Li and Iftekhar Ahmed. Commit message matters: Investigating impact and evolution
of commit message quality. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software
Engineering (ICSE), pages 806–817. IEEE, 2023.
[33] Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Yangtian Zi, Niklas Muennighoff, Denis Kocetkov, Chenghao
Mou, Marc Marone, Christopher Akiki, Jia Li, Jenny Chim, et al. StarCoder: may the source
be with you! arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06161, 2023.
[34] Zehan Li, Xin Zhang, Yanzhao Zhang, Dingkun Long, Pengjun Xie, and Meishan Zhang.
Towards general text embeddings with multi-stage contrastive learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2308.03281, 2023.
[35] Chin-Yew Lin. Rouge: A package for automatic evaluation of summaries. In Text summarization branches out, pages 74–81, 2004.
[36] Wang Ling, Phil Blunsom, Edward Grefenstette, Karl Moritz Hermann, Tomáš Kočiskỳ, Fumin
Wang, and Andrew Senior. Latent predictor networks for code generation. In Proceedings of
the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 599–609, 2016.
[37] Jerry Liu. LlamaIndex, 2022. URL https://github.com/jerryjliu/llama_index.
[38] Jiawei Liu, Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuyao Wang, and Lingming Zhang. Is your code generated
by ChatPGT really correct? Rigorous evaluation of large language models for code generation.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 36, 2024.
[39] Tianyang Liu, Canwen Xu, and Julian McAuley. RepoBench: Benchmarking repository-level
code auto-completion systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03091, 2023.
[40] Anton Lozhkov, Raymond Li, Loubna Ben Allal, Federico Cassano, Joel Lamy-Poirier, Nouamane Tazi, Ao Tang, Dmytro Pykhtar, Jiawei Liu, Yuxiang Wei, et al. StarCoder 2 and The
Stack v2: The Next Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.19173, 2024.
[41] Shuai Lu, Daya Guo, Shuo Ren, Junjie Huang, Alexey Svyatkovskiy, Ambrosio Blanco, Colin
Clement, Dawn Drain, Daxin Jiang, Duyu Tang, et al. CodeXGLUE: A machine learning
benchmark dataset for code understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2102.04664,
2021.
[42] Qinyu Luo, Yining Ye, Shihao Liang, Zhong Zhang, Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Yesai Wu, Xin Cong,
Yankai Lin, Yingli Zhang, et al. RepoAgent: An LLM-powered open-source framework for
repository-level code documentation generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.16667, 2024.
[43] Rui Meng, Ye Liu, Shafiq Rayhan Joty, Caiming Xiong, Yingbo Zhou, and Semih
Yavuz. SFR-Embedding-Mistral: Enhance text retrieval with transfer learning. Salesforce AI Research Blog, 2024. URL https://blog.salesforceairesearch.com/
sfr-embedded-mistral/.
[44] Niklas Muennighoff, Qian Liu, Armel Randy Zebaze, Qinkai Zheng, Binyuan Hui, Terry Yue
Zhuo, Swayam Singh, Xiangru Tang, Leandro Von Werra, and Shayne Longpre. OctoPack:
instruction tuning code large language models. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations, 2023.
[45] Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu. Bleu: A method for automatic
evaluation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the 40th annual meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics, pages 311–318, 2002.
[46] Michael Poli, Stefano Massaroli, Eric Nguyen, Daniel Y Fu, Tri Dao, Stephen Baccus, Yoshua
Bengio, Stefano Ermon, and Christopher Ré. Hyena hierarchy: Towards larger convolutional
language models. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 28043–28078.
PMLR, 2023.
[47] Maja Popović. chrF: character n-gram F-score for automatic MT evaluation. In Proceedings
of the Tenth Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation, pages 392–395, 2015.
[48] Stephen Robertson, Hugo Zaragoza, et al. The probabilistic relevance framework: BM25 and
beyond. Foundations and Trends® in Information Retrieval, 3(4):333–389, 2009.
11

[49] Devjeet Roy, Sarah Fakhoury, and Venera Arnaoudova. Reassessing automatic evaluation
metrics for code summarization tasks. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM Joint Meeting on
European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
Engineering, pages 1105–1116, 2021.
[50] Baptiste Roziere, Jonas Gehring, Fabian Gloeckle, Sten Sootla, Itai Gat, Xiaoqing Ellen Tan,
Yossi Adi, Jingyu Liu, Tal Remez, Jérémy Rapin, et al. Code Llama: Open foundation models
for code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.12950, 2023.
[51] Maximilian Schall, Tamara Czinczoll, and Gerard de Melo. CommitBench: A benchmark for
commit message generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.05188, 2024.
[52] Rico Sennrich, Barry Haddow, and Alexandra Birch. Neural machine translation of rare words
with subword units. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1715–1725, 2016.
[53] Uri Shaham, Elad Segal, Maor Ivgi, Avia Efrat, Ori Yoran, Adi Haviv, Ankit Gupta, Wenhan
Xiong, Mor Geva, Jonathan Berant, et al. SCROLLS: standardized comparison over long
language sequences. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 12007–12021, 2022.
[54] Wei Tao, Yanlin Wang, Ensheng Shi, Lun Du, Shi Han, Hongyu Zhang, Dongmei Zhang,
and Wenqiang Zhang. A large-scale empirical study of commit message generation: models,
datasets and evaluation. Empirical Software Engineering, 27(7):198, 2022.
[55] Yi Tay, Mostafa Dehghani, Samira Abnar, Yikang Shen, Dara Bahri, Philip Pham, Jinfeng Rao,
Liu Yang, Sebastian Ruder, and Donald Metzler. Long range arena: A benchmark for efficient
transformers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.04006, 2020.
[56] Yi Tay, Mostafa Dehghani, Dara Bahri, and Donald Metzler. Efficient transformers: A survey.
ACM Computing Surveys, 55(6):1–28, 2022.
[57] Yingchen Tian, Yuxia Zhang, Klaas-Jan Stol, Lin Jiang, and Hui Liu. What makes a good commit message? In Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering,
pages 2389–2401, 2022.
[58] Hugo Touvron, Louis Martin, Kevin Stone, Peter Albert, Amjad Almahairi, Yasmine Babaei,
Nikolay Bashlykov, Soumya Batra, Prajjwal Bhargava, Shruti Bhosale, et al. Llama 2: Open
foundation and fine-tuned chat models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.09288, 2023.
[59] Christopher Vendome, Gabriele Bavota, Massimiliano Di Penta, Mario Linares-Vásquez,
Daniel German, and Denys Poshyvanyk. License usage and changes: A large-scale study
on GitHub. Empirical Software Engineering, 22:1537–1577, 2017.
[60] Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq Joty, and Steven CH Hoi. CodeT5: Identifier-aware unified
pre-trained encoder-decoder models for code understanding and generation. In Proceedings
of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 8696–
8708, 2021.
[61] Yue Wang, Hung Le, Akhilesh Gotmare, Nghi Bui, Junnan Li, and Steven Hoi. CodeT5+:
Open code large language models for code understanding and generation. In Proceedings of
the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages 1069–
1088, 2023.
[62] Pengcheng Yin, Bowen Deng, Edgar Chen, Bogdan Vasilescu, and Graham Neubig. Learning
to mine aligned code and natural language pairs from Stack Overflow. In Proceedings of the
15th international conference on mining software repositories, pages 476–486, 2018.
[63] Fengji Zhang, Bei Chen, Yue Zhang, Jacky Keung, Jin Liu, Daoguang Zan, Yi Mao, JianGuang Lou, and Weizhu Chen. RepoCoder: repository-level code completion through iterative
retrieval and generation. In Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 2471–2484, 2023.
[64] Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. BERTScore:
evaluating text generation with BERT. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2019.

12

Supplementary Materials (Long Code Arena)
These supplementary materials include the following:
1. Appendix A — datasheet for the Library-based code generation dataset.
2. Appendix B — datasheet for the CI builds repair dataset.
3. Appendix C — datasheet for the Project-level code completion dataset.
4. Appendix D — datasheet for the Commit message generation dataset.
5. Appendix E — datasheet for the Bug localization dataset.
6. Appendix F — datasheet for the Module summarization dataset.

A

Datasheet for the Library-Based Code Generation Dataset

A.1 Motivation
Q1 For what purpose was the dataset created?
• The dataset for the library-based code generation task is a part of Long Code Arena, a
set of six benchmarks that cover different aspects of code processing. The most important feature of Long Code Arena is utilization of module- or project-level contexts for
all the tasks, code generation included. Thus, the purpose of this dataset is to evaluate
how good machine learning models can utilize data from an entire software project
when solving the code generation task.
Q2 Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?
• This dataset is created by the JetBrains Research team, in particular, by the authors of
this paper.
Q3 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
• This work was conducted at JetBrains Research and therefore was funded by JetBrains,
a vendor of specialized development tools.
Q4 Any other comments?
• No.
A.2 Composition
Q5 What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
• Each of the 150 samples in the dataset represents an instruction that a machine learning
model should follow when generating a Python program, reference data for evaluation
of the generation quality, and relevant data that can be used to improve generation.
This relevant data is the source code of an entire Python library, based on a usage
example from which we created the instruction for generation.
Q6 How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?
• There are 150 datapoints in total.
Q7 Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?
• The dataset is a sample. It comes from a larger set of Python repositories.
Q8 What data does each instance consist of?
• The structure of the datapoints is presented in Table 1.
Q9 Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
• The labels are available in two forms: the reference program that was written by library
authors as an example of library usage, and the list of library-specific API calls that
the reference program makes. Both the program itself and the list of API calls can be
used to assess the quality of a program generated by a machine learning model under
evaluation.
13

Table 1: The structure of datapoints in the library-based code generation dataset.
Field

Description

repo_full_name
repo_name
repo_owner
instruction
reference
clean_reference
path_to_reference_file

Concatenated repository name and owner
Library repository name
Library repository owner
Task for code generation
Reference program written by the library authors
Reference program with comments removed
Path to the reference in the repository (removed in
repository snapshots to prevent data leakages)
Path to the directory with examples in the repository (removed in repository snapshots to prevent
data leakages)
Number of calls to library-specific APIs in the reference program
List of calls to library-specific APIs in the reference program
All class and method names in the repository
All API calls in the reference program
All API calls to the respective library in the reference program

path_to_examples_folder
n_unique_apis
unique_apis
project_defined_elements
api_calls
internal_apis

Q10 Is any information missing from individual instances?
• No.
Q11 Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
• All instances are independent, yet may share properties such as the same contributor
or repository, which are represented as fields in the dataset.
Q12 Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?
• The dataset only contains data for evaluation (i.e., testing split).
Q13 Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?
• See the description of preprocessing in Q22.
Q14 Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources?
• The dataset is self-contained, as it provides the snapshots of all associated repositories.
Q15 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained confidential materials. The
data in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered confidential.
Q16 Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting,
threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?
• The data comes from GitHub, and hence must comply with GitHub’s acceptable use
policy, in particular concerning user safety. We also manually verified our data and
did not find any violation.
Q17 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q18 Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?
14

• We do not provide any markers of subpopulations, since people are not the focus
of the dataset. However, some indicators might be possible to deduce by following
individual datapoints to their source.
Q19 Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly
or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?
• The data was collected from GitHub and thus might be traced back to GitHub users.
Q20 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained sensitive materials. The data
in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered sensitive.
Q21 Any other comments?
• No.
A.3 Collection
Q22 How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
• To collect the data, we use the following protocol:
(a) We collect repositories from GitHub with at least 1,000 commits, at least ten contributors, issues, and stars, at least 10,000 lines of code, not a fork, last commit
after 01.06.2023, and a permissive license (we use the most popular permissive
licenses — MIT, Apache-2.0, BSD-3-Clause, and BSD-2-Clause). For the libraryspecific code generation task, we leave only repositories having Python as the main
language.
(b) For each repository, we detect the folder with usage examples: a folder with “.py”
files that contains “examples” in its name. If a repository does not have such a
folder, we filter it out. After this step, we are left with 883 repositories that have
usage examples.
(c) We then identify library-specific APIs for each of the 883 repositories. We extract
all names of all methods, classes, and constants defined in these repositories, and
treat as “library-specific” the ones that appear only in a single repository.
(d) We then collect all Python files from the folders with examples and filter them:
(i) remove examples shorter than 100 or longer than 40,000 characters (excluding
comments), (ii) remove examples that have fewer than 400 characters of comments
in order to then write high-quality instruction for generation, (iii) remove examples
that use fewer than ten API calls specific to the given library. These filters result
in 150 files (usage examples) from 62 libraries, with each file heavily relying on
the APIs of the respective project.
(e) After we have the usage examples for libraries, we create instructions for generating them. We first run the selected 150 files through GPT-4 [1], prompting it to
generate an instruction for generating the respective file. You can see the prompt
for generation in Figure 1. This leaves us with step-by-step instructions that the
LLM should then follow to generate a script that utilizes the library at hand. Then,
we manually fix each instruction in order to reduce hinting to specific library methods and ensure their correctness.
Q23 What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?
• We use GitHub Search [10] to collect the initial list of repositories. We use GitHub
API for data collection. We use OpenAI’s GPT-4 [1] to generate instructions for code
generation and then conduct manual curation of the instructions by the paper authors
having more than six years of experience of software development in Python.
Q24 If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?
• The dataset is sampled from a larger set of repositories by selecting only repositories
with Python as the main language and further filtering as described in Q22.
15

SYSTEM: We are developing a benchmark to assess quality of
code generation models. As a part of the benchmark, we include
the task of generating code based that uses the particular
library from a description in natural language. As a source of
data for this task we will use coding examples in Python
provided by library developers. Your task will be to generate
a text description of the provided Python code that will then
be used as an input for the generation task.
USER: Here is the code. You should write an instruction that
summarizes its contents and would allow another model to
generate this snippet of code, excluding the comments. Make
the instruction abstract, do not mention specific code
constructions that the generator should use. Be concise.
Generator will be able to access the contents of the following
library: [LIBRARY_NAME]. Use wording such as "Generate code
that ..." in your instruction.
[CODE]
Figure 1: Prompt for generating instructions from library usage examples.
Q25 Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated?
• The data collection process was conducted by the authors of this paper.
Q26 Over what timeframe was the data collected?
• The construction of this dataset took place between October 2023 and January 2024.
Q27 Were any ethical review processes conducted?
• No.
Q28 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q29 Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third
parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
• We collected the data from GitHub, a website hosting code and artifacts written by
humans.
Q30 Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?
• Individuals were not notified about the data collection, however, we made sure to only
collect the data with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused.
Q31 Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?
• We did not ask for consent directly, however, we made sure to only collect the data
with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused. We made sure our data collection procedure is in line with GitHub’s acceptable use policies.
Q32 If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism
to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?
• On our HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q33 Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects been
conducted?
• Since individuals are not the focus of our dataset, we foresee at most limited impact.
Users of the dataset might attempt to trace back artifacts to individuals (via GitHub)
16

and try to reach out to them (via contact information on GitHub) with questions about
their artifacts.
Q34 Any other comments?
• No.
A.4 Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling
Q35 Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
• We describe the steps for creating the dataset for library-specific code generation in
Q22.
Q36 Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data?
• We include into the dataset both repository snapshots and human-written programs
that served as a basis for the tasks. The larger set of repositories before filtering steps
is not provided in the dataset.
Q37 Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?
• The code for preprocessing is available on demand by contacting the authors.
Q38 Any other comments?
• No.
A.5 Uses
Q39 Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
• We use the dataset to assess the quality of models in the library-based code generation
task. To do so, we develop and evaluate multiple baselines solutions, and propose two
metrics for assessing quality:
(a) We measure ChrF [47] between the generated code and the reference program
written by developers of the respective library as a usage example. ChrF estimates
similarity between two texts, or code snippets as in our case, using character ngrams. Previous study [14] has shown that it is more robust compared to other
metrics when assessing code generation quality.
(b) We also propose to use API Recall, the ratio of library-specific methods and classes
used in the reference solution that also appear in the generated code. The metric
assumes that a model that solves the generation task well should be able to identify
useful APIs in the library, the same as library developers utilized in the provided
usage example.
• We develop and evaluate baselines based on six popular LLMs in two setups. For models, we use proprietary GPT-3.5-turbo and GPT-4 [1], and instruction-tuned versions
of open-source CodeLlama-7B, CodeLlama-70B [50], Mistral-7B [26], and Mixtral8x7B [27]. In the first setup, we run the models without any information from the
library aside from the instruction for generation that recommends using it. In the second setup, we treat instruction as a query and use BM-25 to find top-20 most relevant
class and method names in the library. To do so, we also split the names by snake_case
and camelCase, remove punctuation from them, and turn them into lower case. Then,
we add the retrieved method names to the instruction and propose the model under
evaluation to use them.
• Table 2 shows the results of evaluation for the baselines. GPT-4 shows the best quality
according to both metrics, with GPT-3.5 following it. Notably, CodeLlama-70B shows
the worst quality by far. This happens because the model refused to answer the code
generation request for most of the queries, answering with a stub message. Models
aside from GPT-4 get very low API Recall, showing that they are not well familiar with
the libraries that we want them to use. We treat this as a success for the benchmark, as
it suggests that using open-source libraries (that models may have seen during training)
does not make the task easy. Using a simplistic retrieval approach to enhance context
allows to add a few points to API Recall for most models, however, the task remains
far from being solved.
17

Table 2: Results of baselines for the library-based code generation task.
No context
GPT-4
GPT-3.5
CodeLlama-7B
Mistral-7B
Mixtral-8x7B
CodeLlama-70B

With retrieved APIs

ChrF

API Recall

ChrF

API Recall

0.41
0.26
0.28
0.30
0.29
0.06

0.37
0.17
0.09
0.07
0.11
0.02

0.39
0.26
0.29
0.31
0.29
0.11

0.36
0.19
0.15
0.13
0.13
0.04

Q40 Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?
• The dataset is currently used in our repository with baselines available on GitHub.
Q41 What tasks could the dataset be used for?
• The dataset can be used for assessing models solving the library-based code generation
task, as explained in Q39.
Q42 Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?
• Not in the data itself. As per the GitHub acceptable usage requirements, researchers
using this dataset must make any papers resulting from it available as open access.
Q43 Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q44 Any other comments?
• No.
A.6 Distribution
Q45 Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity?
• Yes, the dataset is publicly available on the internet.
Q46 How will the dataset be distributed? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)?
• The dataset is available through DOI at the HuggingFace Hub: https://doi.org/
10.57967/hf/2510.
Q47 When will the dataset be distributed?
• The dataset is already publicly available.
Q48 Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP)
license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?
• Data coming from GitHub will be re-distributed under the license it was distributed
with originally on GitHub (for which we only used permissive licenses). The terms
of use require that research conducted with this dataset makes any resulting paper
available as open access, in line with GitHub’s requirements.
Q49 Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated
with the instances?
• No.
Q50 Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q51 Any other comments?
• No.
18

A.7 Maintenance
Q52 Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
• The dataset will be maintained by the JetBrains Research team.
Q53 How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
• The dataset curators can be contacted via email at lca@jetbrains.com.
Q54 Is there an erratum?
• There is no erratum as of June 2024.
Q55 Will the dataset be updated? (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete
instances)?
• The dataset will be extended to more languages and samples over the course of time.
Q56 If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data
associated with the instances?
• On the HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q57 Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?
• The older versions will be kept around for consistency.
Q58 If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
• We welcome all contributions and encourage others to contact the dataset curators via
the provided email.
Q59 Any other comments?
• No.

B Datasheet for the CI Builds Repair dataset
B.1

Motivation
Q1 For what purpose was the dataset created?
• CI builds repair dataset is a part of the Long Code Arena aimed at evaluating models
on repository-level long-context real-life tasks. CI builds repair benchmark is aimed
at testing models in fixing real-life issues in continuous integration. We use the functionality and data of GitHub Actions [18], a popular continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) service. The minimal set of data for the task consists of
a repository snapshot at the commit that caused the failure of the CI workflow and the
logs of the failed step. Based on the provided data, the model under evaluation has to
generate a patch for the project that will make the build pass. The testing then happens
by running CI workflows for the repository with the generated patch.
Q2 Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?
• This dataset is created by the JetBrains Research team, in particular, by the authors of
this paper.
Q3 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
• This work was conducted at JetBrains Research and therefore was funded by JetBrains,
a vendor of specialized development tools.
Q4 Any other comments?
• No.
19

Table 3: The structure of datapoints in the CI builds repair dataset.
Field

Description

contributor
difficulty

The username of the contributor that committed changes
The difficulty of the problem according to an assessor on
a 1–3 scale
Contents of the diff between the failed and the successful
commits
Name of the original branch that the commit was pushed
to
Unique ID of the datapoint
The main language of the repository
List of dictionaries with logs of the failed job and name
of the failed step in this job
Name of the original repository
Owner of the original repository
SHA of the failed commit
SHA of the successful commit
Contents of the workflow file
The name of the workflow file (without full path)
The name of the workflow
The full path to the workflow file
List of files changed in the diff
URL to a commit corresponding to the failed job

diff
head_branch
id
language
logs
repo_name
repo_owner
sha_fail
sha_success
workflow
workflow_filename
workflow_name
workflow_path
changed_files
commit_link

B.2

Composition
Q5 What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
• The dataset instances for the CI builds repair task consist of a repository snapshot
at the commit with failing CI, the logs of the failed CI step, a diff that fixes the CI,
and various metadata. We include diffs to help dataset users to compare the answers
of their models with a ground truth solution. We do not store repository snapshots
and fetch them from GitHub during benchmarking to reduce the dataset’s memory
requirements. To ensure the repositories are available, we forked them to a separate
organization.
Q6 How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?
• There are 77 datapoints in total.
Q7 Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?
• The dataset is a sample. It comes from a larger set of GitHub Actions builds in Python
repositories.
Q8 What data does each instance consist of?
• The structure of the datapoints is presented in Table 3.
Q9 Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
• There is no label or target in the dataset. The goal of the benchmark is to submit
a fix to a GitHub repository that will make the CI build pass. We provide code for
evaluation in our GitHub repository.

Q10 Is any information missing from individual instances?
• No.
Q11 Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
• All instances are independent, yet may share properties such as the same contributor
or repository, which are represented as fields in the dataset.
Q12 Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?
20

• The dataset only contains data for evaluation (i.e., testing split).
Q13 Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?
• We describe the preprocessing strategy in Q22 and discuss the possible obsoletion of
the datapoints in Q55.
Q14 Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources?
• The dataset does not store the repository snapshots but rather fetches them from
GitHub during benchmarking to reduce the dataset’s memory requirements. Otherwise, the dataset is self-contained.
Q15 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained confidential materials. The
data in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered confidential.
Q16 Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting,
threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?
• The data comes from GitHub, and hence must comply with GitHub’s acceptable use
policy, in particular concerning user safety. We also manually verified our data and
did not find any violation.
Q17 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q18 Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?
• We do not provide any markers of subpopulations, since people are not the focus
of the dataset. However, some indicators might be possible to deduce by following
individual datapoints to their source.
Q19 Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly
or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?
• The data was collected from GitHub and thus might be traced back to GitHub users.
Q20 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained sensitive materials. The data
in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered sensitive.
Q21 Any other comments?
• No.
B.3

Collection

Q22 How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
• To collect the data, we used the following protocol:
(a) For all the collected Python repositories, we get the full list of the actions run in
the repository, limited to last 90 days. Downloaded data contains action status
(failed or successful) and links to the action runs.
(b) We gather a list of pairs of consecutive commits in which the first commit causes
a failure of a workflow but the next one makes it build successfully.
(c) For each pair of commits, we download:
– logs of the failed step of the failed commit;
– diff between the failed and successful commit (correction diff );
21

– metadata of the failed commit.
During the download, we clean the data according to the following filters (on the
fly, to avoid excessive requests to GitHub API):
– To reduce the benchmarking time, we eliminate runs that take more than 10
minutes (measured on successful action run).
– To minimize the number of actions that contain pure formatting issues, we filter
out datapoints, in which the names of the workflow, target, or failed step contain
any of the following substrings: {mypy, lint, flake8, black}. We allow these
substrings in the target name if there is more than one target in the action run.
– We remove runs for which the workflow file contains substrings {token, secret}
to ensure that we can run them without any prerequisites.
– We keep only datapoints for which the correction diff (i) contains at least one
.py file, and (ii) only contains files that match either of the following items:
{code file, *.md, *.rst, LICENSE*, readme*, doc/*}. We do so to ensure that
there are no changes in artifacts such as resources or data files, which the model
cannot fix given the present context.
(d) To isolate the problem to a single issue per datapoint, when running the benchmark,
we delete all .yaml files in the .github/workflows/ directory, ensuring that
only this workflow would be run. We also remove workflows that contain links to
other workflow files to make sure that the target workflow is independent.
Q23 What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?
• We use GitHub API to collect the data and further manual verification and assessment
to filter it.
Q24 If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?
• The dataset is sampled from a larger set of repositories by selecting only repositories
with Python as the main language. Also, we only collect CI builds over the period of
90 days and then filter them as described in Q22.
Q25 Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated?
• The data collection process was conducted by the authors of this paper.
Q26 Over what timeframe was the data collected?
• The dataset has been collected in December of 2023. Only datapoints spanning three
months before collection have been gathered, since logs of the GitHub Actions are
stored only for 90 days. Thus, the dataset collection timeframe is October–December
of 2023.
Q27 Were any ethical review processes conducted?
• No.
Q28 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q29 Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third
parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
• We collected the data from GitHub, a website hosting code and artifacts written by
humans.
Q30 Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?
• Individuals were not notified about the data collection, however, we made sure to only
collect the data with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused.
Q31 Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?
22

Table 4: Number of datapoints on each mining step.
Data mining step

# of datapoints

Initial set of sampled workflows
Datapoints that passed assessor verification
Datapoints that passed GitHub Actions
Datapoints that passed GitHub Actions after 6 months

336
210
144
77

• We did not ask for consent directly, however, we made sure to only collect the data
with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused. We made sure our data collection procedure is in line with GitHub’s acceptable use policies.
Q32 If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism
to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?
• On our HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q33 Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects been
conducted?
• Since individuals are not the focus of our dataset, we foresee at most limited impact.
Users of the dataset might attempt to trace back artifacts to individuals (via GitHub)
and try to reach out to them (via contact information on GitHub) with questions about
their artifacts.
Q34 Any other comments?
• No.
B.4

Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling

Q35 Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
• The basic data filters are described in the data collection procedure in Q22. Here, we
provide further filtering steps.
(a) We limited ourselves to the 100 largest Python repositories (main language:
Python, the ratio of the main language > 0.95) with permissive licences. From
each repository, we take no more than three branches, for each branch — no more
than three different workflows, and for each workflow — no more than three datapoints. Thus, each repository could contribute up to 27 datapoints. The automated
data collection process resulted in 336 datapoints (see Table 4).
(b) The human assessor assessed the datapoints to verify that logs contain all the necessary information to fix the issue and graded the datapoints on a 1–3 scale according to their difficulty. Table 5 describes the difficulty levels and the sizes of the
available buckets.
(c) In the last step, we run all datapoints through our benchmark at both the failed
and the successful commit. We then keep only the datapoints that remained failing
/ passing at the respective commits. Moreover, we repeat the procedure after 6
months from the initial procedure to ensure the durability of the dataset. This last
step is crucial as it filtered out 50% of the datapoints: quite many passing workflows started failing due to changes in library versions that were not specified by
repository owners, connection issues, missing remote files or certificates. Table 4
reports the number of filtered datapoints at each step.
Q36 Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data?
• No.
Q37 Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?
• The code for preprocessing is available on demand by contacting the authors.
Q38 Any other comments?
• Context-related statistics are presented in Table 6.
23

Table 5: Data split by the difficulty.
Difficulty

# of datapoints

Description

1
2
3

35
14
28

Issues with formatting
Local issues or issues with typing
Issues that require information about
other files in the repository

Total

77
Table 6: Context-related statistics.

B.5

Context metric

Mean

Median

Symbols in logs
Files in repository
Lines in repository
Symbols in repository

145K
610
170K
7.5M

6.5K
240
56K
2.4M

Uses

Q39 Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
• We use the collected dataset to assess multiple LLMs in the CI builds repair task. To
make the task easier to tackle, we provide models with an oracle — when asking to fix
the build, we also provide the list of files and specific code blocks in them that should
be fixed. The information on which files need fixing comes from the ground truth
commit that fixed the build. In the future, if the task becomes too easy for the models,
oracle can be simply removed to make the task even more realistic and challenging.
• To prompt the models to solve the task, we use the following strategy. To prepare an
instruction, we locate the first occurrence of the case-insensitive substring “error” in
the logs and take a 7-line context around this occurrence (3 lines before and after).
If the substring is not found, we use 7 last log lines. The instruction then reads as
follows: “Fix CI in order for tests to pass. Relevant logs: {relevant_logs}”. We then
prompt the LLM to modify the code blocks provided by an oracle to align with the
given instructions, and pass all the code blocks in a single request in the following
way:
[start of file.py#L12]
...code line 12...
...code line 13...
...
[end of file.py#L12]
• After an LLM replies with the edited versions of the code sections, we convert them
into a diff and apply the resulting patch to the repository. Then, the developed benchmark sends the updated version of the repository to GitHub Actions and collects the
results. Table 7 shows the evaluation results for several models: proprietary GPT-3.5
and GPT-4 [1], open-source versions of Llama-2 [58], Mistral-7B [26], and Mixtral8x7B [27].
Q40 Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?
• The dataset is currently used in our repository with baselines available on GitHub.
Q41 What tasks could the dataset be used for?
• We implement the benchmark for using the CI builds repair dataset in our repository.
The benchmark requires a user-implemented function (fix_repo_function) that repairs
locally stored repository, given the logs of a failing build. The procedure is the following:
(a) The benchmark clones each repository snapshot with depth equal to 1 to a local
machine.
24

Table 7: Pass@1 scores of the CI builds repair benchmark for various LLMs
Model

Pass@1

Mistral-7B
Mixtral-8x7B
Llama-2-7B
Llama-2-13B
Llama-2-34B
GPT-3.5
GPT-4

0.065
0.039
0.065
0.065
0.091
0.169
0.156

(b) Then, the benchmark runs the model under evaluation, which takes a datapoint as
input (mainly — log and workflow files) and needs to repair the repository on the
local machine by editing or replacing files.
(c) The benchmark edits the workflow files to run only one workflow.
(d) Then, it pushes the current state of the repository to a new branch in the separate
GitHub organization.
(e) When results of builds in GitHub Actions become available, the benchmark collects, analyzes, and returns them.
• To use the benchmark, one needs to send a request to join the GitHub organization4 since the procedure requires pushing changes to repositories in that organization. Moreover, keeping repositories as forks in a separate organization ensures that
they will remain available. The function fix_repo_function takes the following (all
optional) arguments:
(a) datapoint: datapoint from the dataset
(b) repo_path: path to the repository on the user’s machine
(c) repo: git.Repo object from the GitPython library
(d) out_folder: directory for outputting the benchmark results
• Intermediate results contain datapoint ID and meta information, as well as the SHA of
the commit pushed to the target repository. After collecting the results, the benchmark
adds the status of the GitHub Actions build to this information.
Q42 Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?
• Not in the data itself. As per the GitHub acceptable usage requirements, researchers
using this dataset must make any papers resulting from it available as open access.
Q43 Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q44 Any other comments?
• No.
B.6

Distribution

Q45 Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity?
• Yes, the dataset is publicly available on the internet.
Q46 How will the dataset be distributed? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)?
• The dataset is available through DOI at the HuggingFace Hub: https://doi.org/
10.57967/hf/2511.
Q47 When will the dataset be distributed?
• The dataset is already publicly available..
4

GitHub Organization for the benchmark: https://github.com/LCA-CI-builds-repair

25

Q48 Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP)
license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?
• Data coming from GitHub will be re-distributed under the license it was distributed
with originally on GitHub (for which we only used permissive licenses). The terms
of use require that research conducted with this dataset makes any resulting paper
available as open access, in line with GitHub’s requirements.
Q49 Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated
with the instances?
• No.
Q50 Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q51 Any other comments?
• No.
B.7

Maintenance

Q52 Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
• The dataset will be maintained by the JetBrains Research team.
Q53 How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
• The dataset curators can be contacted via email at lca@jetbrains.com.
Q54 Is there an erratum?
• There is no erratum as of June 2024.
Q55 Will the dataset be updated? (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete
instances)?
• The dataset will be extended to more languages and samples in the future work. Also,
since the task assessment relies on a loosely controlled GitHub Actions framework,
there is a risk that some datapoints may become invalid over the course of time, as
has already happened over the 6 months after the data gathering. We will continue
updating the dataset with new datapoints and removing the ones that become obsolete
with time.
Q56 If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data
associated with the instances?
• On the HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q57 Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?
• The older versions will be kept around for consistency.
Q58 If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
• We welcome all contributions and encourage others to contact the dataset curators via
the provided email.
Q59 Any other comments?
• No.

C

Datasheet for the Project-Level Code Completion Dataset

C.1 Motivation
Q1 For what purpose was the dataset created?
26

• Project-level code completion dataset is a part of Long Code Arena suite of benchmarks. The dataset can be used to evaluate approaches in utilizing long context in the
code completion task. In this dataset, we avoid possible data leakages by analyzing
Git history, introduce a classification of completion lines, and provide entire repositories as a context. The benchmark is composed of four self-sufficient sets with various
context sizes.
Q2 Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?
• This dataset is created by the JetBrains Research team, in particular, by the authors of
this paper.
Q3 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
• This work was conducted at JetBrains Research and therefore was funded by JetBrains,
a vendor of specialized development tools.
Q4 Any other comments?
• No.
C.2 Composition
Q5 What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
• Each instance that comprises the dataset consists of three key elements: a repository
snapshot, a completion file, and target lines for the completion task. A repository
snapshot is a list of all the filenames and contents of all text files from the repository
(code, documentation, etc.). The state of the repository is before the commit where
the completion file was added. A completion file is a Python file added in a particular
commit. Target lines are a list of lines from the completion file that the model under
evaluation should generate. Each line is also assigned one of classes that we describe
in Q35.
Q6 How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?
• There are 934 datapoints in total, divided between four sets. Note that while each
datapoint contains a single completion file, it requires the model to generate multiple
lines in it.
(a) small-context set contains 144 datapoints.
(b) medium-context set contains 224 datapoints.
(c) large-context set contains 270 datapoints.
(d) huge-context set contains 296 datapoints.
Q7 Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?
• The dataset is a sample. It comes from a larger set of Python repositories and commits.
Q8 What data does each instance consist of?
• The structure of datapoints:
– repo – repository name in the format {GitHub_user_name}__{repository_name}
– commit_hash – hash of the commit where the completion file was added
– completion_file – dictionary with the completion file content in the following
format:
* filename – path to the completion file
* content – content of the completion file
– completion_lines – dictionary where keys are categories of lines and values
are a list of integers (numbers of lines to complete). The categories are described
in Q35.
– repo_snapshot – dictionary with a snapshot of the repository before the commit. Has the same structure as completion_file, but filenames and contents are
organized as lists.
– completion_lines_raw – the same as completion_lines, but before sampling.
27

Q9 Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
• Targets for the completion task are provided in the completion_lines field. To get
a target line for completion, split the completion file by newline characters and select
lines using the provided indices. Line categories are also provided.
Q10 Is any information missing from individual instances?
• No. However, during the collection process we focused only on the text-based files.
While filenames for all files are included in the repository snapshot, the content of
non-text files (e.g., images) is recorded as None.
Q11 Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
• All instances are independent, yet may share properties such as the same contributor
or repository, which are represented as fields in the dataset.
Q12 Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?
• The dataset only contains data for evaluation (i.e., testing split).
Q13 Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?
• The repository snapshots are intentionally not filtered to ensure that all possible information could be utilized. As a result, the dataset includes sources of noise, such as
auto-generated files, CSV data, etc.
Q14 Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources?
• The dataset is self-contained.
Q15 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained confidential materials. The
data in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered confidential.
Q16 Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting,
threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?
• The data comes from GitHub, and hence must comply with GitHub’s acceptable use
policy, in particular concerning user safety. We also manually verified our data and
did not find any violation.
Q17 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q18 Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?
• We do not provide any markers of subpopulations, since people are not the focus
of the dataset. However, some indicators might be possible to deduce by following
individual datapoints to their source.
Q19 Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly
or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?
• The data was collected from GitHub and thus might be traced back to GitHub users.
Q20 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained sensitive materials. The data
in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered sensitive.
Q21 Any other comments?
• No.
28

C.3 Collection
Q22 How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
• Starting with the common corpus of repositories, we then follow the following process
to acquire the data:
(a) Traverse Git history: We collect commits that add at least one new .py file.
These files are candidates for the completion files.
(b) Filtering collected commits: We filter the commits to retain only those with the
potential completion files containing between 200 and 2,000 lines, and with creation dates after January 1st, 2022.
(c) Extract repository snapshots: We create snapshots of the repositories based on
the filtered commits, ensuring that we capture the state of the repository before the
collected commit.
(d) Split by the size of relevant context: We split all the data into four groups based
on the number of characters in .py files from the repository snapshots. The groups
are: (i) small-context: less than 48K characters; (ii) medium-context: from 48K
to 192K characters; (iii) large-context: from 192K to 768K characters; (iv) hugecontext: more than 768K characters;
(e) Sample datapoints: we randomly sample 5 datapoints for each repository, and
we randomly sample 75 repositories for each group. If fewer than 5 datapoints or
75 repositories are available, we use all available datapoints or repositories. We
keep all 80 repositories for the medium-context dataset.
(f) Classify lines: We perform line classification that is introduced in the paper and
assign a main category to each line of the completion file.
(g) Sample completion lines: We sample lines from each category such that the average number of lines is no more than 5 for non-informative and random categories,
and no more than 10 for other categories.
Q23 What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?
• Data collection utilized GitHub API. Further, we used manual verification and assessment for data filtering.
Q24 If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?
• We use the following sampling strategy for the datapoints when creating a dataset from
a larger set of GitHub repositories:
(a) If there are more than 5 datapoints from the same repository in a dataset, randomly
sample 5.
(b) If there are more than 75 different repositories in a dataset, randomly sample 75.
We keep all 80 repositories for the medium-context set.
• We also filter the completion files:
(a) The file contains from 200 to 2,000 lines.
(b) The file was added to the repository after January 1st, 2022.
• Finally, we sample the completion lines:
(a) Sample 5 lines for non-informative and random categories.
(b) Remove exact duplicates by sampling 1 line from a set of exact duplicates.
(c) For each class except non-informative and random, remove 1 randomly chosen
line from a datapoint with a maximum number of lines until we have an average
not greater than 10.
Q25 Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated?
• The data collection process was conducted by the authors of this paper.
Q26 Over what timeframe was the data collected?
• The dataset has been collected in December of 2023. Considering the filtering process,
the data within the dataset spans from January 2022 to December 2023.
Q27 Were any ethical review processes conducted?
29

• No.
Q28 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q29 Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third
parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
• We collected the data from GitHub, a website hosting code and artifacts written by
humans.
Q30 Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?
• Individuals were not notified about the data collection, however, we made sure to only
collect the data with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused.
Q31 Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?
• We did not ask for consent directly, however, we made sure to only collect the data
with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused. We made sure our data collection procedure is in line with GitHub’s acceptable use policies.
Q32 If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism
to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?
• On our HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q33 Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects been
conducted?
• Since individuals are not the focus of our dataset, we foresee at most limited impact.
Users of the dataset might attempt to trace back artifacts to individuals (via GitHub)
and try to reach out to them (via contact information on GitHub) with questions about
their artifacts.
Q34 Any other comments?
• No.
C.4 Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling
Q35 Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
• Classification of the lines is done for each of the completion files. There are six categories of completion lines according to various completion scenarios.
(a) infile – a line contains at least one function or class that was declared in the completion file.
(b) inproject – a line contains at least one function or class that was declared in the
repository snapshot files.
(c) common – a line contains at least one function or class that was classified to be
common, e.g., main, get, etc.
(d) committed – a line contains at least one function or class that was declared in the
files that were created in the same commit as the completion file (excluding the
completion file).
(e) non-informative – a line that satisfies at least on of the following criteria: (i) shorter
than 5 characters or longer than 150 characters, (ii) a line with print, (iii) a line
with import, (iv) a declaration of a function or a class, (v) a comment or contains
an inline comment.
(f) random – all the lines that do not have any category.
• Some lines may have more than one category after the classification. We additionally
identify the main category for each line based on the following approach.
– If a line has a committed category, then the main category is committed.
30

Table 8: Line counts for different sets in the project-level code completion dataset.
Set

infile

inproject

common

committed

non-informative

random

all

Avg. for one file

Small
Medium
Large
Huge

1,430
2,224
2,691
2,608

95
2,236
2,595
2,901

500
779
693
692

1,426
1,495
1,322
1,019

532
858
1,019
1,164

703
1,084
1,311
1,426

4,686
8,676
9,631
9,810

32.5
38.7
35.7
33.1

– If a line does not satisfy the previous condition, but has an inproject category, then
the main category is inproject.
– If a line does not satisfy previous conditions, but has an infile category, then the
main category is infile.
– If a line does not satisfy previous conditions, but has a common category, then the
main category is common.
– If a line has a non-informative category, then the main category is non-informative.
– If a line has a random category, then this is the only category for the line, and the
main category is random.
Q36 Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data?
• No.
Q37 Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?
• The code for preprocessing is available on demand by contacting the authors.
Q38 Any other comments?
• We provide a distribution of lines for each set and each category in Table 8.
C.5 Uses
Q39 Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
• We use the dataset to evaluate how well pre-trained code LLMs can utilize context
from the given repository. We provide the evaluation results for CodeLlama 7B in
Table 9 (see the online leaderboard for other models).
• We evaluate publicly available models as baselines without any modifications or finetuning. We implement several approaches to compose the context that fits into the
model’s context window (see Q44). One of the best performing composers is the
Path distance composer, for which the results are present in Table 9. This composer
chooses .py files from the repository snapshot that are in the same directory as the
completion file or in the nearby directories, first picking files closer in the file tree
to the completion file. As the context window sizes for all models are limited, we
truncate the input sequence to the respective context size.
• We also report the results for the file-level context, which feeds the models only the
prefix of the completion file for each completion line.
Q40 Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?
• The dataset is currently used in our repository with baselines available on GitHub.
Q41 What tasks could the dataset be used for?
• The provided dataset can be used in different tasks:
– to evaluate various approaches to utilize long context for code models, e.g.,
retrieval-augmented generation, support of long context windows, etc.;
– to explore how code files in other languages or non-code files affect code completion;
– to compare benefits from long contexts with the associated increase in costs.
Q42 Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?
• Not in the data itself. As per the GitHub acceptable usage requirements, researchers
using this dataset must make any papers resulting from it available as open access.
31

Table 9: Results of the project-level code completion for CodeLlama 7B. The metric is Exact Match
for the generated line.
Context

infile

inproject

committed

common

non-informative

random

all

Small

File-level
Path Distance 16K
Difference

0.35
0.37
+6%

0.16
0.27
+68%

0.33
0.34
+3%

0.32
0.33
+3%

0.28
0.29
+2%

0.42
0.43
+2%

0.35
0.37
+5%

Medium

File-level
Path Distance 16K
Difference

0.37
0.43
+16%

0.32
0.49
+53%

0.38
0.42
+10%

0.31
0.44
+42%

0.31
0.44
+42%

0.50
0.58
+16%

0.39
0.49
+26%

Large

File-level
Path Distance 16K
Difference

0.36
0.46
+27%

0.29
0.44
+52%

0.39
0.55
+41%

0.34
0.46
+35%

0.30
0.42
+40%

0.44
0.54
+23%

0.35
0.47
+35%

Huge

File-level
Path Distance 16K
Difference

0.40
0.44
+10%

0.34
0.43
+26%

0.44
0.54
+22%

0.34
0.41
+20%

0.30
0.40
+36%

0.50
0.54
+8%

0.39
0.45
+17%

Set

Q43 Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
• We ask users of the datasets not to use the provided data for training.
Q44 Any other comments?
• We provide several context composers as baselines.
– Naive composer — all the files from the repository snapshot are concatenated into
one string with no specific order.
– Path distance composer — the order of the files is defined by the distance between
files in a project file tree: if the file from the repository is closer to the completion
file, then its content is closer in the context.
– File length composer — the order of the files is defined by the length of a file:
shorter files are closer to the completion file.
– Half memory composer — each line from the repository files is removed with a
probability of 0.5, and the order of the files is the same as in the naive composer.
– Imports first composer — the order of the files is defined by an import relation of
first degree: if any project files are imported in the completion file, then these files
are closer to the completion file.
– Only declarations composer — some project files are left only with declaration
lines, so we keep only names from the repository files.
• We leave further exploration of different context composers for future work. We
present results for different context composers for CodeLlama 7B and the mediumcontext dataset in Table 10. Our experiments show that the perplexity values are different, but the order of composers performance is the same. A number in the column
name means the maximum number of tokens in the context from the repository snapshot.
C.6 Distribution
Q45 Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity?
• Yes, the dataset is publicly available on the internet.
Q46 How will the dataset be distributed? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)?
• The dataset is available through DOI at the HuggingFace Hub: https://doi.org/
10.57967/hf/2512.
Q47 When will the dataset be distributed?
• The dataset is already publicly available.
Q48 Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP)
license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?
5

We leave only declarations in all files except for one.

32

Table 10: The results for different context composers. The metric is perplexity on the completion
file.
All files

Additional context
File-level (FL)
Naive
Path distance (PD)
Half memory (HM)
HM + PD
File length
Imports First
Only declaration + PD5

Only Python files

256

1,753

12,000

256

1,753

12,000

1.849
1.798
1.783
1.799
1.782
1.797
1.791
1.785

1.849
1.788
1.727
1.789
1.730
1.784
1.769
1.741

1.849
1.761
1.607
1.743
1.636
1.742
1.732
1.710

1.849
1.788
1.782
1.789
1.783
1.792
1.785
1.785

1.849
1.760
1.726
1.765
1.729
1.774
1.751
1.739

1.849
1.677
1.601
1.670
1.636
1.708
1.666
1.708

Difference with FL
0.000
0.172
0.248
0.179
0.213
0.141
0.183
0.141

• Data coming from GitHub will be re-distributed under the license it was distributed
with originally on GitHub (for which we only used permissive licenses). The terms
of use require that research conducted with this dataset makes any resulting paper
available as open access, in line with GitHub’s requirements.
Q49 Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated
with the instances?
• No.
Q50 Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q51 Any other comments?
• No.
C.7 Maintenance
Q52 Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
• The dataset will be maintained by the JetBrains Research team.
Q53 How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
• The dataset curators can be contacted via email at lca@jetbrains.com.
Q54 Is there an erratum?
• There is no erratum as of June 2024.
Q55 Will the dataset be updated? (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete
instances)?
• The dataset will be extended to more languages and samples over the course of time.
Q56 If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data
associated with the instances?
• On the HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q57 Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?
• The older versions will be kept around for consistency.
Q58 If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
• We welcome all contributions and encourage others to contact the dataset curators via
the provided email.
Q59 Any other comments?
• No.
33

Table 11: The structure of datapoints in the commit message generation dataset.
Field

Description

repo

The full name of the GitHub repository the
commit comes from
The SHA hash of the commit, serves as an
identifier inside individual repository
The timestamp of the commit (from the
commit author)
The type of the license in the repository of
the commit
The ground truth commit message
The changes performed in a commit, represented as a list of per-file modifications,
where the structure of a per-file modification is described in Table 12

hash
date
license
message
mods

D

Datasheet for the Commit Message Generation dataset

D.1

Motivation
Q1 For what purpose was the dataset created?
• Commit message generation benchmark from Long Code Arena aims to evaluate machine learning models that generate natural language descriptions for large changes
in software projects. Prior works on commit message generation typically address
smaller changes and do not clean the data to the rigorous standards of manual curation.
Q2 Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?
• This dataset is created by the JetBrains Research team, in particular, by the authors of
this paper.
Q3 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
• This work was conducted at JetBrains Research and therefore was funded by JetBrains,
a vendor of specialized development tools.
Q4 Any other comments?
• No.

D.2

Composition
Q5 What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
• Each instance in the dataset represents a commit from a GitHub repository, with metadata like commit SHA and full repository name, ground truth commit message, and the
list of performed changes in the Git diff format. Also, the dataset includes snapshots
of all associated repositories to facilitate context construction.
Q6 How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?
• There are 163 datapoints in total.
Q7 Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?
• The dataset is a sample from the test set of the CommitChronicle dataset, which is a
vast collection of commits from GitHub repositories.
Q8 What data does each instance consist of?
• The structure of the datapoints is presented in Table 11.
Q9 Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
34

Table 12: The structure of a per-file modification in the commit message generation dataset.
Field

Description

change_type

The type of change to the current file, one
of: ADD, COPY, RENAME, DELETE,
MODIFY, or UNKNOWN
The path to file before the change (might
be empty if the file was created)
The path to file after change (might be
empty if the file was deleted)
The changes to the current file, represented
in a Git diff format

old_path
new_path
diff

• The ground truth commit message for each commit can be regarded as target description for the changes from the corresponding commit.
Q10 Is any information missing from individual instances?
• No.
Q11 Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
• All instances are independent, yet may share properties such as the same contributor
or repository, which are represented as fields in the dataset.
Q12 Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?
• The dataset only contains data for evaluation (i.e., testing split).
Q13 Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?
• See preprocessing in Q35.
Q14 Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources?
• The dataset is self-contained, as it provides the snapshots of all associated repositories.
Q15 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained confidential materials. The
data in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered confidential.
Q16 Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting,
threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?
• The data comes from GitHub, and hence must comply with GitHub’s acceptable use
policy, in particular concerning user safety. We also manually verified our data and
did not find any violation.
Q17 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q18 Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?
• We do not provide any markers of subpopulations, since people are not the focus
of the dataset. However, some indicators might be possible to deduce by following
individual datapoints to their source.
Q19 Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly
or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?
• The data was collected from GitHub and thus might be traced back to GitHub users.
Q20 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?
35

• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained sensitive materials. The data
in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered sensitive.
Q21 Any other comments?
• No.
D.3

Collection

Q22 How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
• The data associated with each instance was acquired directly from the CommitChronicle dataset [13].
Q23 What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?
• We refer the reader to the work of Eliseeva et al. [13] for the details about data collection. We also perform manual validation to select high-quality examples with long
diffs and commit messages.
Q24 If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?
• This dataset is based on the test set of CommitChronicle to leave the disjoint train and
validation sets for further experiments. We leave only Python commits from the test
set and perform rigorous filtering as described in Q35.
Q25 Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated?
• The data collection process was conducted by the authors of CommitChronicle,
Eliseeva et al. [13].
Q26 Over what timeframe was the data collected?
• The CommitChronicle dataset [13] was collected in February 2023. The construction
of this dataset took place between October 2023 and January 2024.
Q27 Were any ethical review processes conducted?
• No.
Q28 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q29 Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third
parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
• We collected the data from GitHub, a website hosting code and artifacts written by
humans.
Q30 Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?
• Individuals were not notified about the data collection, however, we made sure to only
collect the data with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused.
Q31 Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?
• We did not ask for consent directly, however, we made sure to only collect the data
with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused. We made sure our data collection procedure is in line with GitHub’s acceptable use policies.
Q32 If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism
to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?
• On our HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
36

Table 13: Filters applied to the CommitChronicle subset to build the commit message generation
dataset from Long Code Arena. *Since the Quality filter is based on a deep learning classifier, it was
applied only to the subset of 3,366 commits obtained by running all the other filters.
Filter Description

Hash Diffs
Diff Filters

Modification
Capitalization
Verbs
References
Noise

Message Filters

Min Words
Min Lines
Hash Messages
Quality

Filter Details

Number of commits
rejected by the filter
(% of initial sample)

Diff has whitespace-separated character-to-words
ratio ≤ 20 [33].
Diff consists only of modifications of existing files
(no additions, deletions, renaming, or copying).

437 (0.25%)

Message starts with an uppercase letter [44].
Message starts with any of the curated set of verbs
from the recent work of Muennighoff et al. [44].
Message does not contain external references
(URLs or references to issues/pull requests).
Message does not follow certain patterns considered automatically generated or trivial [13, 44].
Message contains ≥ 4 words (whitespaceseparated).
Message contains ≥ 2 lines.
Message has whitespace-separated character-towords ratio ≤ 20 [33] and does not contain any
SHA hashes [13].
Message is considered good by the commit message quality classifier.

68,384 (39.70%)
90,696 (52.66%)

25,750 (14.95%)

31,487 (18.28%)
6,304 (3.66%)
24,474 (14.21%)
138,160 (80.22%)
12,540 (7.28%)
106 (3.14%)*

Q33 Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects been
conducted?
• Since individuals are not the focus of our dataset, we foresee at most limited impact.
Users of the dataset might attempt to trace back artifacts to individuals (via GitHub)
and try to reach out to them (via contact information on GitHub) with questions about
their artifacts.
Q34 Any other comments?
• No.
D.4

Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling

Q35 Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
• The exact data processing steps are listed in Table 13. For the commit message quality
filter, we refine the dataset released in a recent study from Li and Ahmed [32] to make
it more suitable for data filtering purposes, and fine-tune the CodeBERT [15] model.
Our commit message quality dataset6 and classifier7 are available online.
• After filtering, we retain 3,260 commits. Since we aim to target commits with larger
changes, after the initial filtering, we only keep samples where the number of characters in diffs related to .py files is ≥ 3,000 characters. That leaves us with 858 commits
that we further filter manually.
• The manual labeling is conducted by one of the authors. We employ a 5-point Likert
scale and additionally provide comments that elaborate on the reasoning for most of
the samples. To facilitate further research, we made all the labels and comments
available in the dataset.
Q36 Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data?
• The raw data about each commit from the repositories included in the final version of
our dataset can be obtained from the provided repositories’ snapshots.
6
Commit
message
quality
dataset:
https://huggingface.co/datasets/saridormi/
commit-message-quality
7
Commit
message
quality
classifier:
https://huggingface.co/saridormi/
commit-message-quality-codebert

37

Q37 Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?
• The code for preprocessing is available on demand by contacting the authors.
Q38 Any other comments?
• No.
D.5

Uses

Q39 Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
• We run multiple instruction-tuned LLMs on the presented commit message generation benchmark in a zero-shot setting (i.e., no examples in the prompt, only a natural
language instruction). We employ the same prompt for all models, which we refine
to address the most frequent issues in the generated messages from pilot experiments.
The prompt is presented in Figure 2. We only incorporate commit changes represented
as diffs returned by the git diff command to prompt the LLMs and leave collection
of more sophisticated contexts for future works. Additionally, we run the CodeT5 [60]
model fine-tuned for commit message generation task on the training part of the CommitChronicle dataset. This model only takes the commit diff as an input.
Write a commit message for a given diff. Start with a heading that
serves as a summary of the whole diff: a single sentence in an
imperative form, no more than 50 characters long. If you have details
to add, do it after a blank line. Do your best to be specific, do not
use ‘refactor’ unless you are absolutely sure that this change is ONLY
a refactoring. Your goal is to communicate what the change does
without having to look at the source code. Do not go into low-level
details like all the changed files, do not be overly verbose. Avoid
adding any external references like issue tags, URLs or emails. Diff:
[DIFF]
Commit message:
Figure 2: The prompt for the commit message generation task.
• We run each model three times with different random seeds and report average metrics across runs. We access OpenAI models through the official API. For all the other
baselines, we use a single NVIDIA A100 GPU with default precision (except for Mixtral, where we use 8-bit precision [12]) and FlashAttention-2 [11] enabled. For all
the models, we set the temperature to 0.8 and allow them to generate up to 512 tokens. This upper bound is mostly set due to practical considerations, as the maximum
length of a commit message in our Commit Message Generation dataset is only 58
whitespace-separated words. The results are presented in Table 14.
Q40 Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?
• The dataset is currently used in our repository with baselines available on GitHub.
Q41 What tasks could the dataset be used for?
• The dataset can be directly employed for the commit message generation task. It might
be used for other tasks related to the source code changes.
Q42 Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?
• Not in the data itself. As per the GitHub acceptable usage requirements, researchers
using this dataset must make any papers resulting from it available as open access.
Q43 Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q44 Any other comments?
• No.
38

Table 14: Results for the CMG benchmark from Long Code Arena. R stands for ROUGE metric,
BS stands for BERTScore metric, where BS (norm.) is the normalized version. All model categories
are sorted by the ROUGE-1 metric. The best result in the category is highlighted in bold, and the
second best result is underlined. *CodeT5 is the only model fine-tuned for the CMG task as opposed
to the zero-shot setting for the rest of the models.
Model

BLEU

ChrF

R-1

R-2

R-L

BS

BS
(norm.)

Proprietary

GPT-4 Turbo (1106)
GPT-4 (0613)
GPT-3.5 Turbo (0613)
GPT-3.5 Turbo (1106)

2.803
2.127
2.101
1.885

34.391
32.624
26.664
20.698

26.622
23.497
19.976
18.424

5.296
5.217
4.227
3.815

17.717
16.033
14.447
14.087

0.856
0.852
0.846
0.854

0.146
0.124
0.087
0.136

OSS (medium)

Mixtral 8 bit (8x7B)
DeepSeek Coder (33B)
CodeLLaMA (34B)

2.189
1.742
1.586

31.984
29.08
24.632

23.61
21.011
17.817

5.376
4.471
3.684

16.329
14.458
13.114

0.848
0.843
0.844

0.097
0.067
0.073

OSS (small)

Mistral (7B)
DeepSeek Coder (6.7B)
CodeLLaMA (13B)
CodeLLaMA (7B)

1.895
1.634
1.727
1.108

30.719
28.567
23.099
26.638

23.648
20.188
18.207
16.961

4.458
3.604
3.642
2.807

16.262
14.116
13.479
12.028

0.847
0.843
0.844
0.835

0.096
0.068
0.075
0.021

OSS (tiny)

DeepSeek Coder (1.3B)
CodeT5* (220M)

0.75
0.355

22.449
11.862

13.815
13.615

2.029
2.633

9.753
11.439

0.822
0.845

-0.057
0.083

D.6

Distribution

Q45 Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity?
• Yes, the dataset is publicly available on the internet.
Q46 How will the dataset be distributed? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)?
• The dataset is available through DOI at the HuggingFace Hub: https://doi.org/
10.57967/hf/2513.
Q47 When will the dataset be distributed?
• The dataset is already publicly available.
Q48 Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP)
license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?
• Data coming from GitHub will be re-distributed under the license it was distributed
with originally on GitHub (for which we only used permissive licenses). The terms
of use require that research conducted with this dataset makes any resulting paper
available as open access, in line with GitHub’s requirements.
Q49 Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated
with the instances?
• No.
Q50 Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q51 Any other comments?
• No.
D.7

Maintenance

Q52 Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
• The dataset will be maintained by the JetBrains Research team.
Q53 How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
• The dataset curators can be contacted via email at lca@jetbrains.com.
39

Q54 Is there an erratum?
• There is no erratum as of June 2024.
Q55 Will the dataset be updated? (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete
instances)?
• The dataset will be extended to more languages and samples over the course of time.
Q56 If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data
associated with the instances?
• On the HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q57 Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?
• The older versions will be kept around for consistency.
Q58 If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
• We welcome all contributions and encourage others to contact the dataset curators via
the provided email.
Q59 Any other comments?
• No.

E Datasheet for the Bug Localization dataset
E.1

Motivation
Q1 For what purpose was the dataset created?
• The bug localization benchmark is a part of the Long Code Arena that serves to evaluate models’ abilities in locating files that should be changed given a bug description.
The dataset includes real issues that describe bugs, together with the respective pull requests (PRs) that fix them. The model under evaluation takes a bug description and the
repository state before the fix and then outputs the list of files that need to be changed.
Q2 Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?
• This dataset is created by the JetBrains Research team, in particular, by the authors of
this paper.
Q3 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
• This work was conducted at JetBrains Research and therefore was funded by JetBrains,
a vendor of specialized development tools.
Q4 Any other comments?
• No.

E.2

Composition
Q5 What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
• Each datapoint contains three key elements: the bug description, the state of the repository where the bug is reproducible, and the list of files that need to be modified to
resolve the bug. The bug description represents the body of the issue that was assigned a bug-related label. The repository state is represented by the commit SHA.
The list of files that should be modified comes from the pull request that resolves the
respective bug report.
Q6 How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?
• The dataset contains 7,479 datapoints in total divided, between three sets by language:
– py — change contains only Python files (4,339 datapoints);
– java — change contains only Java files (2,522 datapoints);
40

Table 15: Description of datapoints in the bug localization dataset.
Field

Description

id
repo_owner
repo_name
static_id
issue_url
issue_title
issue_body
issue_labels
pull_url
pull_create_at
base_sha
head_sha
diff_url
diff
changed_files
link_url

Datapoint ID
Bug issue repository owner
Bug issue repository name
Datapoint text ID
GitHub link to issue
Issue title
Issue body with bug description
List of labels assigned to issue
GitHub link to PR
Date of PR creation in format of yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ssZ
PR base SHA
PR head SHA
PR diff URL between base and head SHA
PR diff content
List of changed files parsed from diff
GitHub link to issue or PR comment from which the link was
parsed
Number of links between the issue and the PR, equals 2 if the
link is mutual, 1 if it is one-sided
"Fix"-related keyword which surrounds the issue link
Number of repository stars
Main programming language for repository

links_count
link_keyword
stars
language

– kt — change contains only Kotlin files (618 datapoints).
50 datapoints for each language are manually verified in order to form a test subset for
model evaluation (150 datapoints in total).
Q7 Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?
• The dataset is a sample. It comes from a larger set of issues in Python, Kotlin, and
Java GitHub repositories.
Q8 What data does each instance consist of?
• The core fields in the datapoints are presented in Table 15.
• Based on the core fields, we calculated the number of statistics and attached them
to each datapoint. The additional fields are presented in Table 16. We excluded test
files from the experiment because their modifications typically only support program
repairs and do not contain the actual bugs. Thus, all metrics are calculated on all
project files except for the test files.
Q9 Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
• The target for the bug localization task is the list of files that should be changed (field
changed_files in the dataset).
Q10 Is any information missing from individual instances?
• No.
Q11 Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
• All instances are independent, yet may share properties such as the same contributor
or repository, which are represented as fields in the dataset.
Q12 Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?
• The dataset contains the dedicated test split consisting of 150 examples that are manually verified for correctness. Along with it, we present a development split that was
not manually checked but can be used by researchers for model development.
Q13 Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?
41

Table 16: Description of additional metrics calculated on the bug localization dataset.
Metric

Description

issue_symbols_count
issue_tokens_count
issue_words_count
issue_lines_count
issue_code_blocks_count

Number of symbols in issue description
Number of tokens in issue description
Number of words in issue description
Number of lines in issue description
Number of triple quotes blocks parsed in
issue description
Number of links parsed in issue description

issue_links_count
diff_symbols_count
diff_tokens_count
diff_words_count
issue_lines_count
changed_files_count
changed_files_without_test_count
code_changed_files_count
py_changed_files_count
java_changed_files_count
kt_changed_files_count
repo_symbols_count
repo_tokens_count
repo_words_count
repo_lines_count
repo_files_count
repo_files_without_test_count

Number of symbols in diff
Number of tokens in diff
Number of words in diff
Number of lines in diff
Number of all changed files mentioned in
diff
Number of changed files not including test
files mentioned in diff
Number of files written in Python, Java, or
Kotlin mentioned in diff
Number of Python files mentioned as
changed in diff
Number of Java files mentioned as changed
in diff
Number of Kotlin files mentioned as
changed in diff
Total number of symbols in repository’s
files
Total number of tokens in repository’s
files.
Total number of words in repository’s files
Total number of lines in repository’s files
Total number of files in repository
Total number of files without tests in the
repository

• We describe the data collection process in Q22.
Q14 Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources?
• The dataset does not store the repository snapshots but rather fetches them from
GitHub during benchmarking to reduce the dataset’s memory requirements.
Q15 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained confidential materials. The
data in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered confidential.
Q16 Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting,
threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?
• The data comes from GitHub, and hence must comply with GitHub’s acceptable use
policy, in particular concerning user safety. We also manually verified our data and
did not find any violation.
Q17 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
42

style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q18 Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?
• We do not provide any markers of subpopulations, since people are not the focus
of the dataset. However, some indicators might be possible to deduce by following
individual datapoints to their source.
Q19 Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly
or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?
• The data was collected from GitHub and thus might be traced back to GitHub users.
Q20 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained sensitive materials. The data
in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered sensitive.
Q21 Any other comments?
• No.
E.3

Collection

Q22 How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
• To collect the data, we use the following protocol:
(a) We start with the common corpus of collected GitHub repositories. Then, for each
repository, we download information about all issues, pull requests, and comments
using the GitHub API. As a result, we download more than 8M issues, 7M pull
requests, and 34.4M comments.
(b) GitHub API does not provide information about relations between issues and pull
requests. We obtain these relations by parsing references from descriptions or
comments. To do so, we write regular expressions for extracting all possible referencing formats as provided in GitHub documentation. To also collect the context
around the reference, we capture one “fix”-related keyword (e.g., close, closes,
closed, fix, fixes, fixed, resolve, resolves, resolved, solve, solves,
solved) before and after the link with the regular expressions. We also check if
references are mutual (if the issue refers to the pull request and vice versa) or not
(if only a single link from either the issue or the pull request exists).
(c) We sort all issue-PR pairs by the number of stars in the respective repository and
assign each pair an ID based on its index in the sorted order. We populate the diff
field by running a git command in a locally cloned repository to get the diff in a
text format. Unfortunately, this method does not work for pull requests created
from forks, so we save a null value for such cases.
Q23 What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?
• The data collection step used GitHub API. Then, we performed manual verification
and assessment to select and filter data.
Q24 If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?
• The dataset is sampled from a larger set of issues and pull requests as described in
Q22.
Q25 Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated?
• The data collection process was conducted by the authors of this paper.
Q26 Over what timeframe was the data collected?
• The construction of this dataset took place between October 2023 and January 2024.
Q27 Were any ethical review processes conducted?
43

• No.
Q28 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q29 Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third
parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
• We collected the data from GitHub, a website hosting code and artifacts written by
humans.
Q30 Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?
• Individuals were not notified about the data collection, however, we made sure to only
collect the data with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused.
Q31 Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?
• We did not ask for consent directly, however, we made sure to only collect the data
with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused. We made sure our data collection procedure is in line with GitHub’s acceptable use policies.
Q32 If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism
to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?
• On our HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q33 Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects been
conducted?
• Since individuals are not the focus of our dataset, we foresee at most limited impact.
Users of the dataset might attempt to trace back artifacts to individuals (via GitHub)
and try to reach out to them (via contact information on GitHub) with questions about
their artifacts.
Q34 Any other comments?
• No.
E.4

Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling

Q35 Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
• To enhance the quality of our data, first, we apply empirical filters based on the fields
from the dataset, as listed in Table 17. Firstly, we retain only issues with “bug” mentioned in the labels and non-empty descriptions. Additionally, we remove issues containing links to media, as they may include crucial data visualizations that are inaccessible through other means. To ensure that most models can use the dataset for evaluation, we only keep issues written in English. For pull requests, we filter out those
introducing new files and retain only pull requests modifying existing files, provided
their diffs could be extracted from the cloned repository. Furthermore, to facilitate the
future manual labeling process, we leave only pull requests written in Python, Java, or
Kotlin, as these are languages known well to authors. To work with diffs and patches,
as well as to extract the changed files and their modification modes, we use the unidiff
package.8 Additionally, we avoid pull requests that include changes to media files
with non-UTF-8 encoding, as such changes are often difficult to reproduce. The most
crucial filter ensures that each pull request is associated with exactly one issue, and
vice versa, to maintain the relevance of changes to issue descriptions and to prevent
situations where a pull request addresses multiple issues or an issue is fixed by several
pull requests. Following these filtration steps, 10,195 datapoints remain in the dataset.
• On top of the previous filtering step, we remove outliers for several numerical fields, including changed_files_count, changed_lines_count, and
issue_tokens_count. Table 18 shows the result of removing outliers.
8

Undiff: https://pypi.org/project/unidiff/

44

Table 17: Empirical filters applied to the bug localization dataset.
Field

Description

Number of datapoints rejected by
the filter (% of the
initial set)

issue_labels

At least one label should include "bug" as a substring
Description should not be empty
Description should contain only text without attached media
Description should be written mostly in English

3,472,057 (79.8%)

issue_body
issue_body
issue_body
diff
diff
diff
diff
base_commit
pull_url
issue_url
link_keyword

Diff can be extracted and should not be empty or
corrupted
Diff should consist only of modifications of existing files and no introduction of new files
Diff should include at least one file in either
Python, Java, or Kotlin
Diff should include only UTF-8 files to filter out
unreadable or graphical objects
Repository content on base commit can be extracted and should not be empty or corrupted
PR should refer to no more than one issue
Issue should refer to no more than one pull request
"fix"-related keyword should stay before or after
link in the issue description.

16,265 (0.37%)
145,225 (3.34%)
35,942 (0.83%)
475,447 (10.93%)
30,572 (0.7%)
138,653 (3.19%)
18 (≤ 0.01%)
6,198 (0.14%)
7,376 (0.17%)
1,934 (0.04%)
10,406 (0.24%)

Table 18: Outlier filters applied to the bug localization dataset.
Field

Description

changed_files_count

Number of changed files should not be more than
22 (0.99 quantile)
Number of changed lines should not be more than
594 (0.99 quantile)
Issue description can be tokenized using GPT-4 tokenizer
Issue description should contain at least 13 tokens
(0.01 quantile)
Issue description should contain no more than
4,500 tokens (0.99 quantile)

changed_lines_count
issue_tokens_count
issue_tokens_count
issue_tokens_count

Number of datapoints rejected by
the filter (% of
initial set)
100 (≤ 0.01%)
102 (≤ 0.01%)
43 (≤ 0.01%)
85 (≤ 0.01%)
103 (≤ 0.01%)

• After data filtration, we are left with 7,479 datapoints that comprise the entire dataset.
Table 19 presents statistics of the dataset, with the difference in statistics between
languages being negligible.
• After the analysis of the dataset, we carry out manual data labeling and verification
process to select the subset of high-quality datapoints for evaluation. First, we sort
the datapoints by the number of stars in the respective repositories, assuming that
popular repositories have better processes and quality for issue tracking and bug reporting. Then, we go through datapoints of each repository, selecting ones that meet
the following criteria:
– The issue describes a single bug completely and exhaustively.
– The pull request is linked to the issue and resolves this issue alone.
45

Table 19: Final statistics of the dataset.
Field

Min

Median

Mean

Max

repo_files_count
repo_lines_count
repo_tokens_count

16
9
78

331
52,743
488,286

1,077
145,377
1,684,619

33,644
8,687,912
225,649,725

changed_files_count
changed_lines_count
changed_tokens_count

1
1
1

1
15
158

2
37
608

21
594
837,626

issue_words_count
issue_lines_count
issue_tokens_count

1
1
13

106
22
227

149
33
432

1,806
586
4,491

issue_links_count
issue_code_blocks_count

0
0

0
1

0.80
0.99

56
31

– All changes are relevant to the described issue, with no extra functionality or side
refactorings included.
– The changes were reviewed and accepted.
• If a datapoint does not meet these criteria, we go to another one from the same repository, or if none are left, we move on to the next repository by the number of stars, until
we select 50 good datapoints per language. To keep the distribution of the number of
changed files, for each repository, we try to pick one datapoint with a single changed
file and one datapoint with two or more changed files. This strategy allows us to collect a diverse set of datapoints from different repositories and keep the distribution of
the number of changed files similar to the complete set of issues.
Q36 Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data?
• No.
Q37 Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?
• The code for preprocessing is available on demand by contacting the authors.
Q38 Any other comments?
• No.
E.5

Uses

Q39 Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
• We run several baseline solutions on the bug localization task that utilize the presented
dataset. The results are presented in Table 20.
• First, we evaluate several retrieval-based approaches. The logic is straightforward:
data analysis indicates that issue descriptions often include code blocks and stack
traces pointing to the code responsible for bugs. Consequently, these descriptions
should closely match the content of the files that require modification. Following this
logic, we can compute embeddings for the bug report and all project files, and then
identify project files that require fixing as the closest to the bug description by the cosine distance in the embedding space. We try several approaches to compute embeddings: TF-IDF with a BPE tokenizer pre-trained on the repository code, CodeT5 [60],
CodeBERT [15], GTE [34], and Mistral [26] models. Also, we evaluate BM25 [48], a
classic approach from the information retrieval field.
• Second, we evaluate GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, prompting them to identify one to five
bugged files using the bug description and the list of repository files. Figure 3 presents
the full prompt with placeholders. If the prompt exceeds the context size, we divide
the file list into several queries. The final query combines all outputs and requests the
final list sorted by relevance.
• For metrics, we calculate Recall@1 for the datapoints with one changed file, Recall@2
and Precision@2 for datapoints with two or more changed files. For all datapoints, we
46

List of files: [FILES_LIST]
Issue: [ISSUE_TITLE] [ISSUE_DESCRIPTION]
You are given a list of files in the project and a bug issue
description. Select a subset of 1--5 files that SHOULD be fixed
according to the issue. Provide output in JSON format with one field
‘files’ which contains a list of file names that SHOULD be fixed.
Provide ONLY JSON without any additional comments.
Figure 3: Prompt for bug localization by GPT models.
Table 20: The baseline results for the bug localization task.
Model

R@1

R@2

P@2

F1-score

MAP

TF-IDF+NLTK
TF-IDF+BPE
BM25
CodeT5
CodeBERT
GTE
Mistral

0.16
0.30
0.17
0.28
0.29
0.37
0.35

0.1
0.15
0.12
0.13
0.15
0.17
0.17

0.15
0.24
0.19
0.17
0.18
0.26
0.24

0.13
0.21
0.19
0.18
0.20
0.25
0.25

0.20
0.28
0.21
0.23
0.25
0.33
0.30

GPT-3.5
GPT-4

0.49
0.74

0.19
0.20

0.31
0.32

0.35
0.44

0.29
0.39

also calculate the F1-score and MAP, which we consider the target metric for model
comparison.
Q40 Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?
• The dataset is currently used in our repository with baselines available on GitHub.
Q41 What tasks could the dataset be used for?
• The provided dataset can be used for evaluating bug localization approaches and other
tasks related to bug-fixing problems.
Q42 Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?
• Not in the data itself. As per the GitHub acceptable usage requirements, researchers
using this dataset must make any papers resulting from it available as open access.
Q43 Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q44 Any other comments?
• No.
E.6

Distribution

Q45 Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity?
• Yes, the dataset is publicly available on the internet.
Q46 How will the dataset be distributed? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)?
• The dataset is available through DOI at the HuggingFace Hub: https://doi.org/
10.57967/hf/2514.
Q47 When will the dataset be distributed?
• The dataset is already publicly available.
Q48 Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP)
license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?
47

• Data coming from GitHub will be re-distributed under the license it was distributed
with originally on GitHub (for which we only used permissive licenses). The terms
of use require that research conducted with this dataset makes any resulting paper
available as open access, in line with GitHub’s requirements.
Q49 Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated
with the instances?
• No.
Q50 Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q51 Any other comments?
• No.
E.7

Maintenance

Q52 Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
• The dataset will be maintained by the JetBrains Research team.
Q53 How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
• The dataset curators can be contacted via email at lca@jetbrains.com.
Q54 Is there an erratum?
• There is no erratum as of June 2024.
Q55 Will the dataset be updated? (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete
instances)?
• The dataset will be extended to more languages and samples over the course of time.
Q56 If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data
associated with the instances?
• On the HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q57 Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?
• The older versions will be kept around for consistency.
Q58 If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
• We welcome all contributions and encourage others to contact the dataset curators via
the provided email.
Q59 Any other comments?
• No.

F Datasheet for the Module Summarization dataset
F.1 Motivation
Q1 For what purpose was the dataset created?
• Module summarization dataset is a part of the Long Code Arena that aims at testing
models in generating documentation files. The minimal set of data for the task consists
of an intent behind the documentation and the relevant part of the codebase. Based
on the provided data, the model has to generate the documentation. The testing then
happens by running an LLM assessor to decide which documentation is better: the
generated one or the ground truth.
Q2 Who created this dataset (e.g., which team, research group) and on behalf of which
entity (e.g., company, institution, organization)?
48

Table 21: The structure of datapoints in the module summarization dataset.
Field

Description

repo

The full name of the GitHub repository the
commit comes from
The name of the documentation file. May
be useful in the prompt
Small manually gathered intent that describes what we expect from the generated
documentation
The type of the license in the repository of
the commit
The path to file with documentation in the
repository
List of paths in the repository to the potentially relevant code files
Directory with relevant code, field can be
empty
The text of the target documentation —
ground truth in our task
Code context joined from relevant code
files and directories

docfile_name
intent
license
path_to_docfile
relevant_code_files
relevant_code_dir
target_text
relevant_code_context

• This dataset is created by the JetBrains Research team, in particular, by the authors of
this paper.
Q3 Who funded the creation of the dataset?
• This work was conducted at JetBrains Research and therefore was funded by JetBrains,
a vendor of specialized development tools.
Q4 Any other comments?
• No.
F.2 Composition
Q5 What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent?
• Each instance in the dataset represents an instruction for generating a documentation
file (intent and name of the original file), as well as a snapshot of a repository that
the model should use for generation. Table 21 shows the detailed structure of the
datapoints.
Q6 How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?
• There are 216 datapoints in total.
Q7 Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?
• The dataset is a sample. It comes from a larger set of Python repositories.
Q8 What data does each instance consist of?
• The structure of the datapoints is presented in Table 21.
Q9 Is there a label or target associated with each instance?
• The target for each instance is the ground truth documentation text.
Q10 Is any information missing from individual instances?
• No.
Q11 Are relationships between individual instances made explicit?
• All instances are independent, yet may share properties such as the same contributor
or repository, which are represented as fields in the dataset.
49

Q12 Are there recommended data splits (e.g., training, development/validation, testing)?
• The dataset only contains data for evaluation (i.e., testing split).
Q13 Are there any errors, sources of noise, or redundancies in the dataset?
• See collection steps in Q22.
Q14 Is the dataset self-contained, or does it link to or otherwise rely on external resources?
• The dataset is self-contained, as it provides the snapshots of all associated repositories.
Q15 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered confidential?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained confidential materials. The
data in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered confidential.
Q16 Does the dataset contain data that, if viewed directly, might be offensive, insulting,
threatening, or might otherwise cause anxiety?
• The data comes from GitHub, and hence must comply with GitHub’s acceptable use
policy, in particular concerning user safety. We also manually verified our data and
did not find any violation.
Q17 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q18 Does the dataset identify any subpopulations (e.g., by age, gender)?
• We do not provide any markers of subpopulations, since people are not the focus
of the dataset. However, some indicators might be possible to deduce by following
individual datapoints to their source.
Q19 Is it possible to identify individuals (i.e., one or more natural persons), either directly
or indirectly (i.e., in combination with other data) from the dataset?
• The data was collected from GitHub and thus might be traced back to GitHub users.
Q20 Does the dataset contain data that might be considered sensitive in any way?
• This dataset was collected from openly available GitHub repositories with permissive
licenses, with the assumption that any data found was intended to be shared freely.
However, it is possible that these repositories contained sensitive materials. The data
in the dataset was manually evaluated, and we did not see anything that could be
considered sensitive.
Q21 Any other comments?
• No.
F.3 Collection
Q22 How was the data associated with each instance acquired?
• To collect the data, we use the following protocol:
(a) We start with the Python subset of the common corpus of GitHub repositories. For
each repository, we extract documentation files — files with extensions .md, .txt,
and .rst, located in the docs directory of the repository.
(b) For each documentation file, we extract the associated source code. To do this, we
parse the target documentation and extract names of all code files and directories
mentioned in it. If a file does not contain any such mentions, we skip it.
(c) To further filter the documentation files, we convert documentation into a plain text
format by removing specific Markdown syntax (as well as text between Markdown
tags like code, autosummary, etc.). We then ensure that each document contains
valuable information and has at least 10 lines of text remaining after cleaning.
50

Since the filtering is quite strict, we believe that only important documents remain
after this stage.
(d) We perform manual review of the datapoints to ensure that the content contains
not only information about the code but also summarizes the entire module or
project. After manual review, we leave 216 out of 461 files. Most of the files that
we reject contain non-informative text that is not related to code. Also, for each
documentation file, we manually specify an intent that the model under evaluation
can use during generation.
• Manual verification is essential, as our experience with data frequently reveals instances where a docfile lacks useful content or does not provide substantial information in the plain text format, without special extensions that enrich documentation.
Q23 What mechanisms or procedures were used to collect the data (e.g., hardware apparatus or sensor, manual human curation, software program, software API)?
• The data collection step used GitHub API. Then, we performed manual verification
and assessment to select and filter data.
Q24 If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?
• The dataset is sampled from a larger set of repositories by selecting only repositories
with Python as the main language and further filtering as described in Q22.
Q25 Who was involved in the data collection process (e.g., students, crowdworkers, contractors) and how were they compensated?
• The data collection process was conducted by the authors of this paper.
Q26 Over what timeframe was the data collected?
• The construction of this dataset took place between October 2023 and January 2024.
Q27 Were any ethical review processes conducted?
• No.
Q28 Does the dataset relate to people?
• The dataset consists of code and artifacts collected from GitHub, meaning that they
were written by human users. However, these human users themselves, their coding
style, authorship information, authorship of source code in any other way, or personal
information in any other way are not the focus of the dataset directly.
Q29 Did you collect the data from the individuals in question directly, or obtain it via third
parties or other sources (e.g., websites)?
• We collected the data from GitHub, a website hosting code and artifacts written by
humans.
Q30 Were the individuals in question notified about the data collection?
• Individuals were not notified about the data collection, however, we made sure to only
collect the data with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused.
Q31 Did the individuals in question consent to the collection and use of their data?
• We did not ask for consent directly, however, we made sure to only collect the data
with permissive licenses, ensuring that it can be reused. We made sure our data collection procedure is in line with GitHub’s acceptable use policies.
Q32 If consent was obtained, were the consenting individuals provided with a mechanism
to revoke their consent in the future or for certain uses?
• On our HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q33 Has an analysis of the potential impact of the dataset and its use on data subjects been
conducted?
• Since individuals are not the focus of our dataset, we foresee at most limited impact.
Users of the dataset might attempt to trace back artifacts to individuals (via GitHub)
and try to reach out to them (via contact information on GitHub) with questions about
their artifacts.
51

Q34 Any other comments?
• No.
F.4 Preprocessing / Cleaning / Labeling
Q35 Was any preprocessing/cleaning/labeling of the data done?
• The data filtering, preprocessing, and labeling steps are described in the data collection
procedure in Q22.
Q36 Was the “raw” data saved in addition to the preprocessed/cleaned/labeled data?
• No.
Q37 Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?
• The code for preprocessing is available on demand by contacting the authors.
Q38 Any other comments?
• No.
F.5 Uses
Q39 Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?
• We run several LLMs on the collected module summarization dataset with different
length of the relevant code context. To assess the quality of the generated documentation, we introduce a new metric called CompScore that uses LLM (Mistral-7B in
our case) as an assessor. CompScore feeds the assessor LLM relevant code and two
versions of documentation: the ground truth and the model-generated text. The LLM
then evaluates which documentation better explains and fits the code. To mitigate variance and potential ordering effects in model responses, we calculate the probability
that the generated documentation is superior by averaging the results of two queries:
CompScore =

P (pred | LLM(code, pred, gold)) + P (pred | LLM(code, gold, pred))
2

To count P (pred | LLM(code, pred, gold)), we follow several steps:
(a) Construct the prompt and feed it into the assessor LLM (see Figure 4).
I have 2 different documentations about {intent}. Decide which
documentation is better: documentation A or documentation B.
My code: [TRIMMED_CODE_CONTEXT]
Documentation A: [PREDICTED_DOC]
Documentation B: [GROUND_TRUTH_DOC]
Better documentation is documentation
Figure 4: Prompt for the CompScore metric.
(b) Get logits for the next token being “A” and “B” (logitA and logitB ) and convert
them into probabilities:
probA , probB = exp (log_sof tmax([logitA , logitB ]))
(c) P (pred | LLM(code, pred, gold)) = probA shows the probabilty that the predicted documentation is better than the original from the perspective of the LLM
assessor.
• For our experiments, we use Mistral-7B-Instruct-v0.2 as LLM assessor. We truncate
relevant code up to 6,000 tokens in the prompt for metric computation. We evaluate all
the models presented in Table 22 via OpenAI API or TogetherAI API with the same
generation parameters. We use zero temperature and predict up to 2,000 new tokens
without any penalties to get deterministic results during generation. Table 22 shows
the results for all the evaluated LLMs with varying length of available relevant code
context.
52

Table 22: CompScore metric in the module summarization benchmark for various LLMs.
Model

128 tokens

512 tokens

1k tokens

2k tokens

Mistral-7B-v0.3
Mixtral-8x7B
Mixtral-8x22B
Llama2-7B
Llama2-13B
Llama2-70B
CodeLlama-7B
CodeLlama-70B
Llama3-8B
Llama3-70B
Gemma-2B
Gemma-7B
GPT-3.5
GPT-4

35.84
34.63
35.33
36.33
40.96
39.78
33.02
38.36
25.37
24.79
16.43
24.16
36.83
45.62

39.18
38.48
38.48
44.21
47.37
45.97
36.88
38.74
32.14
30.08
21.04
28.24
41.59
52.59

41.03
39.96
39.49
44.13
46.57
46.37
36.49
39.76
33.84
33.18
21.85
30.44
45.59
56.22

46.23
40.89
42.24
46.19
48.12
48.24
38.06
37.23
37.35
36.45
25.38
33.96
49.48
57.33

• We observe that both increasing the context size and the size of the model leads to
higher quality. The GPT4 model outperforms the others, achieving a notable CompScore of 57.33. Interestingly, the CodeLlama and Llama3 models show worse performance than the Llama2 model.
Q40 Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?
• The dataset is currently used in our repository with baselines available on GitHub.
Q41 What tasks could the dataset be used for?
• The dataset can be directly employed for the module summarization task. It might be
used for other tasks related to the source code changes.
Q42 Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?
• Not in the data itself. As per the GitHub acceptable usage requirements, researchers
using this dataset must make any papers resulting from it available as open access.
Q43 Are there tasks for which the dataset should not be used?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q44 Any other comments?
• No.
F.6 Distribution
Q45 Will the dataset be distributed to third parties outside of the entity?
• Yes, the dataset is publicly available on the internet.
Q46 How will the dataset be distributed? Does the dataset have a digital object identifier
(DOI)?
• The dataset is available through DOI at the HuggingFace Hub: https://doi.org/
10.57967/hf/2515.
Q47 When will the dataset be distributed?
• The dataset is already publicly available.
Q48 Will the dataset be distributed under a copyright or other intellectual property (IP)
license, and/or under applicable terms of use (ToU)?
• Data coming from GitHub will be re-distributed under the license it was distributed
with originally on GitHub (for which we only used permissive licenses). The terms
of use require that research conducted with this dataset makes any resulting paper
available as open access, in line with GitHub’s requirements.
53

Q49 Have any third parties imposed IP-based or other restrictions on the data associated
with the instances?
• No.
Q50 Do any export controls or other regulatory restrictions apply to the dataset or to individual instances?
• To the best of our knowledge, no.
Q51 Any other comments?
• No.
F.7 Maintenance
Q52 Who is supporting/hosting/maintaining the dataset?
• The dataset will be maintained by the JetBrains Research team.
Q53 How can the owner/curator/manager of the dataset be contacted (e.g., email address)?
• The dataset curators can be contacted via email at lca@jetbrains.com.
Q54 Is there an erratum?
• There is no erratum as of June 2024.
Q55 Will the dataset be updated? (e.g., to correct labeling errors, add new instances, delete
instances)?
• The dataset will be extended to more languages and samples over the course of time.
Q56 If the dataset relates to people, are there applicable limits on the retention of the data
associated with the instances?
• On the HuggingFace Space, we provide information on how individuals can request
removals.
Q57 Will older versions of the dataset continue to be supported/hosted/maintained?
• The older versions will be kept around for consistency.
Q58 If others want to extend/augment/build on/contribute to the dataset, is there a mechanism for them to do so?
• We welcome all contributions and encourage others to contact the dataset curators via
the provided email.
Q59 Any other comments?
• No.

54

