Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

arXiv:2505.07897v3 [cs.CL] 22 Oct 2025

LongCodeBench: Evaluating Coding LLMs at 1M Context
Windows
Stefano Rando∗ & Yuta Kyuragi
Panasonic AI Research
{stefano.rando, yuta.kyuragi}@us.panasonic.com

Luca Romani∗ & Fabio Galasso
Sapienza University of Rome
luca.romani@uniroma1.it
galasso@di.uniroma1.it

Alessio Sampieri∗ & Luca Franco
ItalAI
{alessio.sampieri, luca.franco}@italailabs.com

John Yang & Tatsunori Hashimoto
Stanford University
{johnby, thashim}@stanford.edu

Abstract
Context lengths for models have grown rapidly, from thousands to millions
of tokens in just a few years. The extreme context sizes of modern longcontext models have made it difficult to construct realistic long-context
benchmarks – not only due to the cost of collecting million-context tasks
but also in identifying realistic scenarios that require significant contexts.
We identify code comprehension and repair as a natural testbed and challenge task for long-context models and introduce LongCodeBench (LCB),
a benchmark to test LLM coding abilities in long-context scenarios. Our
benchmark tests both the comprehension and repair capabilities of LCLMs
in realistic and important settings by drawing from real-world GitHub
issues and constructing QA (LongCodeQA) and bug fixing (LongSWEBench) tasks. We carefully stratify the complexity of our benchmark, enabling us to evaluate models across different scales – ranging from Qwen2.5
14B Instruct to Google’s flagship Gemini model. We find that long-context
remains a weakness for all models, with performance drops such as from
29% to 3% for Claude 3.5 Sonnet, or from 70.2% to 40% for Qwen2.5. The
LCB dataset is available publicly at https://huggingface.co/datasets/
Steefano/LCB and the codebase to replicate the work on this paper at
https://github.com/Zteefano/long-code-bench.

1

Introduction

Long-context modeling has arisen as an active
research area, motivated by the potential of models capable of processing extended inputs in realworld applications, such as entire code repositories or large document collections. This trend is
reflected in the emergence of Large Context Language Models (LCLMs) (Anthropic, 2024; OpenAI, 2024; GeminiTeamGoogle, 2024; JambaTeam, 2024), with industry-driven models now
supporting context windows up to millions of tokens. In parallel, experimental architectures continue to explore novel approaches for long-range
modeling (Gu et al., 2022; Gu & Dao, 2024). As illustrated in Figure 1, model context lengths have
grown superexponentially in recent years, mak- Figure 1: Increasing trend of LCLM coning it important for us to understand whether text lengths over time. Models tested on
LCB are highlighted in orange.
and how such context sizes are effective.
∗ Equal contribution

1

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

Tasks

Principles

Comprehension Repair Coding Synthetic Max. Context Granular Eval.
LRA
NIAH
RULER
HELMET
∞BENCH
SWE-Bench

✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
×

×
×
×
✓
×
✓

×
×
×
×
✓
✓

Yes
Partial
Yes
Partial
Yes
No

16K
200K
200K
128K
256K
50K

×
×
×
✓
×
×

LongCodeBench

✓

✓

✓

No

1M

✓

Table 1: Comparison of long-context benchmarks across task coverage (left) and core
principles (right). Repair tasks support Scalability. Generation tasks, coding, and non-synthetic
data reflect Realism. Maximum context length and granular evaluation assess Long-context.
See the discussions in Sections 1 and 3 for details.
Evaluation of million-token LCLMs has been
challenging, with many works relying on synthetic tests (Tay et al., 2021; Kamradt, 2023)
and a few long-context reading comprehension style tasks (Wu et al., 2025; Wang et al., 2024;
Hsieh et al., 2024). However, these tasks do not fully capture the transformative potential of
LCLMs envisioned by their creators, where LCLMs are imagined to learn a foreign language
from a single book or find and fix bugs after ingesting an entire codebase (GeminiTeamGoogle, 2024).
In this work, we focus on the last of these scenarios, aiming to build a benchmark that
allows us to track progress in LMs that understand and fix codebases in challenging realworld scenarios. This benchmark setting is underexplored, with most current coding
benchmarks (Jimenez et al., 2024; Bogomolov et al., 2024) evaluating shorter context lengths
(up to 64K–200K tokens) or focus on isolated tasks such as commit message generation. Our
work expands upon these existing benchmarks by testing the largest existing contexts and
grounding the tasks and scenarios in real-world, economically valuable software engineering
tasks.
We propose LongCodeBench (LCB), a benchmark that evaluates coding LCLMs on both
code comprehension and repair across a range of context sizes, ranging from tens of thousands of tokens up to one million. To test code comprehension, we construct LongCodeQA,
which tests comprehension by posing questions derived from real GitHub issue discussions.
We complement this task with LongSWE-Bench, which assesses repair through debugging
tasks that require models to generate patches for bugs of actual software. As illustrated in
Table 1 (left), our benchmark is grounded on real-world tasks, while providing coverage
over tasks and context lengths. The dataset comprises 1043 instances that have been collected from 108 repositories, and have been curated with human supervision to achieve
high-quality standards.
As illustrated in Table 1 (right), we argue for three principles that guide the creation of LCB:
• Scalability. Despite recent advancements, most LCLMs still struggle to achieve
reliable performance in long-context settings—especially in coding, where evaluation is often binary: a generated code either works or fails. To provide more
informative and graded feedback, LCB includes the QA task on which weaker
LCLMs can achieve nonzero performance to serve as a ”gradient” for the LCLM
improvement. This enables LCB to serve as a useful benchmark for both frontier
models and smaller research models.
• Realism. Coding is one of the most practically grounded applications of LCLMs,
where models are expected to support real-world developer workflows. To reflect
this, all data in LCB are drawn from public GitHub repositories, avoiding synthetic data or artificially simplified tasks. In particular, both LongSWE-Bench and
LongCodeQA are derived from GitHub issues that software engineers raised for
real-world problems. This ensures that LCB provides realistic evaluation settings
aligned with how LCLMs may be used in the future.
2

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

• Long-context. Modern software repositories often span thousands to millions of
tokens, requiring models to process entire codebases for many tasks. LCB introduces
input contexts up to one million tokens—the longest in existing coding benchmarks.
Since model performance is influenced by both architecture and context length,
we also provide evaluations at multiple scales (32K, 64K, 128K, 256K, 512K, and
1M). This design enables fine-grained analysis of long-context behavior, helping
to disentangle context scaling effects from model capabilities, while also ensuring
accessibility for resource-constrained evaluations at smaller context sizes.
We evaluate several recent LCLMs on LCB to quantify their performance in fundamental
software engineering practices (e.g., bug fixing and code comprehension). Our analysis
reveals important trends: performance degradation with increasing context lengths, inability
to infer performance at longer contexts from shorter ones, and correlation between length
sensitivity and task complexity. Ultimately, we show that long-context remains a challange
even for the best models: The accuracy of Claude 3.5 Sonnet on LongSWE-Bench drops from
29% to 3% when increasing context length from 32K to 256K. The analysis informs good
practices on future benchmarking of LCLMs, while indicating LCB as a suitable benchmark
that enables those practices.

2

Related work

2.1

Benchmarks for LCLMs

Recent benchmarks have increasingly extended the context lengths, identifying the necessity
in real-world applications to process entire documents, large code repositories, or multifile inputs. RULER (Hsieh et al., 2024) and ∞BENCH (Zhang et al., 2024) extend context
windows beyond 128K tokens to push the limits of LLMs in retrieving and understanding
long contextual information. Similarly, Needle-in-a-Haystack (NIAH) (Kamradt, 2023) tests
for long-context recall by querying models to detect the position of a text fragment (“needle”)
inserted within a long document (“haystack”). Long Range Arena (Tay et al., 2021), one
of the earliest datasets targeting long-range dependencies, addresses this challenge, but it
remains limited to synthetic tasks that do not reflect the LCLMs’ real-world effectiveness.
Recent works have focused on grounding long-context evaluation in real-world data to
overcome the limitations of synthetic benchmarks. HELMET (Yen et al., 2025) improves
task realism by collecting data samples from practical domains, such as legal or scientific
documents. While this shift enhances applicable relevance, some proposed tasks remain
artificial, including synthetic recall and passage reranking.
Another key trend is the diversification of tasks to assess a broader range of model capabilities. Benchmarks like HELMET, RULER, and NIAH evaluate skills such as complex
reasoning, in-depth summarization, and robust long-range dependency understanding.
By testing models on multiple tasks, these benchmarks offer a more complete evaluation
of model capabilities in different contexts. Our LCB complements existing benchmarks
while addressing gaps in long-context evaluation by (i) targeting long-context evaluation,
aligning with the broader push toward handling extended sequences of text; (ii) focusing
on real-world tasks, with an emphasis on practical software engineering scenarios rather
than synthetic setups; and (iii) introducing novel coding tasks, such as long-context bug
localization and code comprehension via question-answering, which are underrepresented
in existing benchmarks. In this way, LCB extends the long-context evaluation landscape
into the software engineering domain — a critical area for real-world applications yet
underexplored in existing benchmarks.
2.2

Coding benchmarks for LCLMs

Coding has become one of the most widely adopted applications for LLMs, as demonstrated
by the growing number of specialized benchmarks. A seminal work is HumanEval (Chen
et al., 2021), which provides hand-written coding problems where models generate code
from natural language docstrings and evaluate correctness with functional tests. Building on
HumanEval, several works (Cassano et al., 2023; Orlanski et al., 2023) have extended their
3

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

Figure 2: Input prompt structure and output format for the two LCB tasks. LongCodeQA
(left) answer a multiple-choice question considering the full repository and the question derived from GitHub issues. LongSWE-Bench (right) generate a bug-fixing patch considering
a subset of the codebase files and the GitHub issue.
scope by expanding the language coverage and the evaluation tasks, as well as increasing
the sample size and diversity. Similarly, RepoBench (Liu et al., 2024) draws data from
public GitHub repositories and departs from execution-based metrics, a significant shift that
underlines the need for alternative evaluation criteria.
SWE-Bench (Jimenez et al., 2024) proposes a range of debugging tasks by testing models on
real-world problems extracted from public GitHub issues with minimal processing overhead,
thereby closely approximating actual debugging scenarios. Inspired by SWE-Bench realism,
LongCodeBench proposes similar debugging tasks while also introducing a novel challenge
for code comprehension, which is missing in the mentioned benchmarks. Moreover, LCB
pushes the context length well beyond the 50K token limit of SWE-Bench, providing samples
of up to a million tokens. This enables a more challenging and comprehensive evaluation
framework for coding applications.

3

LongCodeBench

In this section, we introduce an overview of the proposed benchmark. Section 3.1 outlines
the general design principles, while Sections 3.2 and 3.3 detail the structure of the LongCodeQA and LongSWE-Bench tasks, respectively. For each task, we report its definition and
evaluation, prompt format, data collection process, and data statistics.
3.1

Code comprehension and repair

Code comprehension and repair test complementary capabilities of LCLMs. Testing on
these two tasks, LCB assesses the LCLM performances in extended contexts under different
perspectives:
• Task-context interaction. Both tasks in LCB operate under the same long-context
regime, but they place fundamentally different demands on how models interact
with the context. In the comprehension task (LongCodeQA), models must identify
relevant information to answer a specific question, evaluating both their implicit
4

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

LongCodeQA

LongSWE-Bench

32K

64K

128K

256K

512K

1M

# Instances
# Repositories
# Files/Repo
# Tokens/File

113
27
26
690

76
16
56
862

92
20
88
1047

65
15
93
1840

47
11
209
1782

50
9
202
3419

# Instances
# Repositories
# Files/Repo
# Tokens/File

100
12
8
5200

100
11
17
3668

100
11
27
4646

100
10
62
4219

100
10
135
3211

100
7
203
4372

Table 2: Dataset statistics for the two LCB tasks across different context-length brackets. For
each bracket (32K to 1M), we report: the number of instances and repositories considered,
the average number of files per repository and the average number of tokens per file.

comprehension of the repository-level context and their explicit reasoning skills for
targeted information extraction. In contrast, the generation task (LongSWE-Bench)
expects the model to produce a valid code patch consistent with the existing project
structure. This dichotomy allows LCB to evaluate both content understanding and
active integration within long-context sequences.
• Attention distribution. LCB’s task design provides an opportunity to examine how
models distribute their attention when processing long-context inputs. LongCodeQA questions require inspecting the repository for definitions, tracing function
objectives, and usage. LongSWE-Bench, on the other hand, emphasizes depth: the
model must anchor its generation in the local project logic, synthesizing precise, executable edits. These tasks stress different computational bottlenecks—information
retrieval versus generation precision—offering complementary insights into LCLMs
behavior scale.
For long-context benchmarks, dataset size must be carefully balanced against the tradeoff
between inference cost and statistical reliability. As the input scales up to a million tokens,
resource requirements scale up quickly, risking inaccessibility if the dataset includes too
many instances, while a sufficient and representative number of samples is needed for
robust evaluation. In LCB, we collect a sufficient number of samples to ensure robust
estimation while containing the evaluation costs within practical limits. We report the total
cost and time of inference for the models tested on LCB in Table 6.
3.2

LongCodeQA

Here we detail LongCodeQA, including the task formulation, the prompt structure, and
data information (i.e., collection, validation, and statistics).
Task formulation To test the models’ code comprehension ability in a long-context scenario, we propose LongCodeQA, which is a multiple-choice question task. Each question is
derived from public GitHub Python repositories, grounding the benchmarking in real-world
software engineering scenarios.
The evaluation metric considered is accuracy, which is measured as the percentage of correct
responses over the total number of questions.
Prompt structure Figure 2 (left) shows an example of the input prompt structure and the
response format. The prompt contains:
• Instructions. Description of the QA task.
• Repository files. The full repository to which the question is related, with files
sorted alphabetically by their name.
• Question. Multiple-choice question.
5

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

To ensure fairness and avoid positional biases in model evaluation, the correct answer
is randomly assigned to one of the four multiple-choice options, with uniform shuffling
applied during generation. Moreover, the task is presented in a zero-shot format, with no
additional instructions or in-context examples provided to the prompt. Complete prompt
examples are reported in appendix B.
Data collection Collecting data for LongCodeQA involves different steps: selecting the
relevant repositories, filtering the issues, and converting issues to multiple-choice questions.
As a first step, to ground the LongCodeQA task in real-world scenarios, we collect questions
derived from closed GitHub issues via GitHub REST APIs. Repositories are selected based
on their total token length to ensure a consistent distribution of samples across different
context-length brackets. To have a significant number of samples, we prioritize repositories
with a high number of publicly available issues.
After selecting repositories based on the mentioned criteria, the second step involves filtering
for relevant issues. To achieve this, we leverage an LLM (i.e., GPT-4) prompting it to filter out
cases involving bug fixing, new feature addition, installation problems, project roadmaps,
or development practices. For the selected issues, the prompt instructs the LLM to convert
them into a multiple-choice question, with the use of structured outputs (Willard & Louf,
2023) for robust formatting. However, we notice that 64% of the questions generated can
be answered using general coding knowledge alone, without referencing the repository
content. As a final safeguard against data contamination (Balloccu et al., 2024), we prompt
GPT-4 to answer each question in the dataset without access to context, and we filter out
the questions on which the model succeeded using internal knowledge alone. After all
iterations, the percentage of initial issues that are converted into appropriate questions is
3.99%. This small percentage reinforces our first point about prioritization of repositories
with a sufficient number of issues.
As a final step, we generate the specific question from the issue, the correct answer, and the
other three wrong answers. The LLM performs an additional step in extracting questions
and answers.
Data validation We design the data generation pipeline for LongCodeQA to satisfy two
key criteria: reliability and fairness. To assess reliability, we perform manual verification
on a stratified random subset of 9 questions for each context length bracket. We verify
that for 52 of the 54 selected questions—96.3%—in-depth research about the repository
and its internal codebase is required to answer successfully. Regarding fairness, a central
design decision in our pipeline is to generate all questions using only the issue “Discussion”,
without referencing the full codebase. This ensures that the benchmark is unbiased and does
not benefit from any implicit access to repository content during construction, preserving
its role as a fair evaluation tool for data construction.
Dataset statistics Table 2 (top) reports additional statistics to characterize the structure and
variability of the LongCodeQA dataset. The task comprises 443 question-answer instances
drawn from 98 public GitHub repositories. Shorter repositories are more common on
GitHub, while larger ones are comparatively rare. To ensure balanced evaluation across
context lengths, we sample a representative number of QA instances for each bracket. The
first and second rows of Table 2 report, respectively, the final number of instances and
repositories contributing to each bracket.
To better understand what drives context size, we analyze the repository structure. The
overall context length of each repository depends on both the average number of files per
repository and the average number of tokens per file, reported in the third and fourth rows
of Table 2, respectively. These two factors reflect complementary sources of complexity:
a higher number of files increases inter-file dependencies, while longer individual files
introduce more intricate intra-file dependencies. We perform an analysis on this aspect in
Section 4, as illustrated in Figure 3.

6

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

3.3

LongSWE-Bench

As for LongCodeQA, this section describes the LongSWE-Bench task, describing the task
formulation, the prompt structure, and data information (i.e., collection, validation, and
statistics).
Task formulation LongSWE-Bench tests a model’s code repair capabilities in a realistic
setting, specifically targeting the task of bug fixing. Each instance is derived from real-world
GitHub issues in public Python repositories, requiring the model to fix a codebase error by
considering a long-context input consisting of multiple repository files.
We employ an execution-based metric for evaluation, validating the generated code by
running unit tests associated with the input issue. A model response is considered valid
if all unit tests pass, while any failed test or compilation error counts as a failure. We
report performance as the percentage of solved issues, effectively reflecting accuracy in the
real-world debugging context.
Prompt structure Figure 2 (right) presents an example of the input prompt structure and
the output response format. The prompt contains:
• Instructions. Description of the task and its requirements;
• Repository files. Structured as two sets of files:
– Ground-truth files from the pull request that fixed the issue and additional;
– Random files sampled from the repository;
• Issue information. Including the title and body of the issue;
• Response format. Illustrating how the model should structure its answer.
We regulate the prompt length by selecting a subset of files (ground-truth and random)
aligning with the desired target context length. No additional instructions or in-context
examples are included, making the task zero-shot. We report additional prompt details in
Appendix B.
Data collection We assemble LongSWE-Bench through three iterative data refining steps.
In the first step, we select public Python GitHub repositories, that meet quality and size
criteria. For quality, we prioritize repositories with a large number of reported issues and
an active development cycle, as these offer a richer set of real-world debugging cases. For
size, we select repositories of sufficient length, ensuring that designated issues come from
projects with considerable codebase.
In the second step, we filter for issues that have been resolved through a pull request.
However, not all such issues are suitable: many lack explicit test cases or involve refactoring
rather than a clear bug fix. Then we restrict the selection to issues for which unit tests are
available, guaranteeing a more reliable performance metric.
As a third step, we manually discard ill-posed samples. Issues have to include a clear
description of the problem and a well-defined solution within the provided information,
excluding feature requests or ambiguous bug reports.
Data validation We design the data collection pipeline to ensure two criteria: reliability
and reproducibility. To ensure the benchmark reliability, we evaluate all the instances in the
benchmark manually, ensuring that they are well-posed and unambiguous. We do not
include issues involving the addition of new features or design choices, as those correspond
to more open-ended problems that are challenging to evaluate. To further verify data
reliability, we provide a detailed analysis in Appendix A, which guides the design of the
issue filtering pipeline used during data collection. To ensure reproducibility, we create
a dedicated execution environment to replicate each issue, guaranteeing that tests run
on the same version of the codebase in which the issue was originally raised. This is
accomplished by creating a dedicated Docker image per instance, where we install the
correct dependencies and verify the bug’s presence before applying the patch. This approach
ensures a reproducible and reliable execution of the unit tests.
7

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

LongCodeQA

LongSWE-Bench

32K

64K 128K 256K 512K 1M

32K 64K 128K 256K 512K 1M

Qwen2.5 - 14B Instruct
Jamba 1.5 - 400B Large
Llama 3.1 - 405B Instruct
Llama 4 Scout

61.9
69.0
69.9
66.4

65.8
69.7
72.4
73.7

68.5
72.8
67.4
70.7

63.1
54.2
63.1

70.2
78.7

40.0
76.0

0
3
0
0

0
1
1
0

0
1
0
0

0
0
0

0
0

0
0

GPT-4o
GPT-4.1
Gemini 2 Flash
Gemini 1.5 Pro
Gemini 2.5 Pro
Claude 3.5 Sonnet

65.5
72.6
66.4
67.3
75.2
65.5

76.3
73.7
68.4
63.2
71.1
69.7

74.3
78.3
65.2
72.8
71.7
71.7

72.3
63.1
64.6
67.7
66.6

78.7
70.2
72.3
68.1
-

80.0
65.5
66.0
69.8
-

11
1
10
1
23
29

6
1
6
6
25
19

5
1
7
2
22
15

1
3
3
24
3

1
2
4
12
-

2
2
5
7
-

Claude 3.5 Sonnet + RAG 25.55 31.18 24.83 25.95 17.19 12.77

23

23

22

21

16

22

Table 3: Performance of different models on LongCodeQA and LongSWE-Bench across
increasing context lengths (32K to 1M tokens). LongCodeQA is evaluated by answer
accuracy, while LongSWE-Bench is evaluated by the percentage of solved issues. The table’s
top section lists open-source models, while closed-source models appear below, and finally
a RAG based model is reported in the last row.

Dataset statistics Table 2 (bottom) provides statistics that characterize the structure and
variability of the LongSWE-Bench dataset. The task comprises 600 bug-fixing instances
evenly distributed across six context-length brackets (32K to 1M), with 100 instances per
bracket. These instances are sampled from 61 public Python repositories. Moreover, we
analyze the repository composition, reporting both the number of files and the average
token length per file.

4

Analysis

This section presents the evaluation results for a range of open- and closed-source models
detailed in Section 4.1. The results for LongSWE-Bench and LongCodeQA tasks are discussed relatively in Sections 4.2 and 4.3. Section 4.4 reports additional observations and
insights based on the results.

4.1

Selection of LCLMs

We evaluate diverse open- and closed-source models supporting context windows up to 1M
tokens. Our selection prioritizes overall performance, maximum context length, and architectural diversity. Among closed-source models, we include GPT-4o (Transformer, 128K) (OpenAI, 2024), GPT-4.1 (Transformer, 1M), Claude 3.5 Sonnet (Transformer, 256K) (Anthropic,
2024), Gemini 2 Flash, 1.5 Pro, and 2.5 Pro (Transformer and MoE, 1M) (GeminiTeamGoogle, 2024). In the open-source category, we consider Qwen2.5-14B-Instruct (Transformer,
1M) (QwenTeam, 2024), Jamba 1.5 400B Large (hybrid Transformer-Mamba with State Space
Model components and MoE, 256K) (JambaTeam, 2024), and Llama 3.1 405B Instruct and
4 Scout (Transformer, 128K-1M) (LlamaTeam, 2024). This selection underscores current
performance and architectural innovations in long-context language models.
In this work, we deliberately focus on long-context evaluation rather than RAG optimization.
We view these as distinct approaches to handling large documents and LongCodeBench
aims to test pure long-context capabilities. For reference, we report results for Claude 3.5
Sonnet with RAG. We remark that performance of RAG architectures depends on prompt
structure and retrieval techniques and therefore the scores reported here are a narrow view
of RAG capabilities. We report each model’s detailed inference time and cost in Appendix C.
8

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

4.2

Performance on LongCodeQA

We report LongCodeQA results across the different context length brackets in Table 3
(left section). Most models demonstrate competitive performance at short to mid-range
brackets (32K–128K), with accuracy peaking between 64K and 128K for nearly all models.
For example, Llama 3.1 achieves the maximum accuracy at 64K with 72.4%, and GPT-4o
reaches 76.3%, the highest result in the short-mid range. Claude 3.5 Sonnet and Jamba
maintain the most solid performance, all above 69% across the lower context windows.
Qwen2.5 steadily improves from 61.9% at 32K to a peak of 70.2% at 512K, showing stability
in longer contexts—though this trend drops drastically at 1M, where accuracy reduces at
40.0%. Similarly, Jamba has good performance up to 128K but degrades significantly at
256K, with accuracy dropping from 72.8% to 54.2%. GPT-4.1 has the best results on the task,
especially showing an improvement over its predecessor, GPT-4o, and consistency across
context lengths. Llama 4 also improves over Llama 3.1, with an higher context window and
better performance at 64K and 128K. Gemini 2 Flash, Gemini 1.5 Pro, and Gemini 2.5 Pro
show remarkably stable behavior across all brackets up to 1M, ranging between 63–72%,
preserving their accuracy in extremely long contexts. We observe that RAG negatively
impacts the performance of Claude 3.5 Sonnet, achieving a score comparable to random
guessing. This is an interesting phenomenon that shows the sensitivity of RAG algorithms
to different tasks.
Overall, LongCodeQA shows that model performance at increasing context lengths is neither
monotonic nor uniform, with several models
peaking early or degrading drastically. This supports the need for long and granular evaluations
like those in LCB, which expose weaknesses in
long-context handling and emphasize the gap
between theoretical context support and actual
robustness.
4.3

Performance on LongSWE-Bench

We report LongSWE-Bench results across con- Figure 3: Accuracy of Gemini 2 Flash on
text brackets in Table 3 (right section), measuring LongCodeQA split into two subsets: samthe number of successfully resolved issues per ples whose prompts have an average #
model per bracket. As expected from the diffi- Tokens/File below or above median.
culty of the task—real-world bug fixing requires
precise code patch—the results are significantly
lower compared to LongCodeQA. Despite the
overall difficulty, some trends emerge. Claude
3.5 Sonnet shows the strongest performance at shorter context lengths, solving 29% of issues
at 32K. It maintains relatively high success at 64K and 128K but drops at 3% sharply at
256K. Both Gemini 2 Flash and GPT-4o peak at 32K with 11% and 10% relatively and show
a gradual drop across longer contexts. On the other hand, Gemini 1.5 Pro demonstrates a
consistently low performance, solving between 1% and 6% across the full range; Gemini 2.5
Pro approaches Claude 3.5 at the 32K window with 23% and maintaining a consistent rate of
success until 256K, decreasing to 7% at 1M. Open-source models perform significantly worse.
Jamba solves up to 3% issues at 32K but drops to 0% by 256K. Qwen2.5, Llama 3.1, Llama 4,
and GPT-4.1 fail to solve any issue across all tested brackets. Contrary to the LongCodeQA
task, RAG helps Claude 3.5 Sonnet achieve positive scores on LongSWE-Bench, stressing
again the importance of RAG strategy dependent on the deployment task.These results
reflect both the increased challenge of generative code tasks and the current gap between
open- and closed-source models in long-context code repair.
LongSWE-Bench exposes the limitations of current LCLMs in long-context settings. While
some models perform reasonably well at shorter context lengths, their effectiveness declines
significantly as the context increases — an effect amplified by the binary nature of the task,
where even small errors lead to complete failure.
9

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

4.4

Discussion

Specialized knowledge Table 3 reveals insightful trends when comparing earlier LLM
versions—Llama 3.1 405B Instruct, GPT-4o, and Gemini 1.5 Pro—with their more recent
counterparts: Llama 4 Scout, GPT-4.1, and Gemini 2.5 Pro. While Llama 4 Scout and GPT-4.1
show improved performance on LongCodeQA, they underperform on LongSWE-Bench;
e.g. GPT-4.1 accuracy drops from a peak of 11% to one of 2%. Llama 4 Scout fails to address
the task at every context length regime, similarly to its predecessor. Conversely, Gemini
2.5 Pro displays a substantial gain on LongSWE-Bench (7–25% compared to 6–1% for its
predecessor), but sees no comparable improvement on LongCodeQA. These trajectories
suggest a possible shift in model development toward specialized competence. Rather
than exhibiting consistent gains across tasks, newer models appear increasingly optimized
for particular domains or problem types—raising the possibility that improvements in
long-context reasoning come at the expense of general-purpose adaptability.
File length vs. performance Table 2 shows that the benchmark’s brackets vary in the total
context length and the average tokens per file. Then, we analyze the correlation between
file length and performance (Figure 3). For each bracket in LongCodeQA, we calculate the
median average file length per sample and split the bracket into two subsets—one below
and one above the median. We then evaluate Gemini 2 Flash’s accuracy on both subsets,
observing that longer files are associated with higher accuracy in 5 out of 6 brackets. This
outcome is contrary to expectations, as longer files typically have greater complexity and
would be expected to degrade performance. Notably, the performance gap reaches nearly
40% in the 512K bracket.
Topics Figure 4 shows a radial pie chart illustrating Gemini 1.5 Pro’s performance on the six
most frequent topics in LongCodeQA. The angle of each slice corresponds to the topic frequency, while the radius indicates the model’s
accuracy. For example, “Software Development”
is the most significant slice (265 samples) with
a 70.9% accuracy, whereas “Databases” achieves
the highest accuracy (84.2%) but occurs less frequently (38 samples). Overall, accuracy fluctuates around the average of 70%, reflecting the
model’s relatively stable performance regardless
of the repository domain.

5

Conclusion

Figure 4: Distribution of question topics
in LongCodeQA, as inferred by an LLM
We introduce LongCodeBench, a comprehen- (GPT-4o). The accuracy of Gemini 1.5
sive benchmark that evaluates long-context lan- Pro for each topic subset is reported and
guage models on real-world coding tasks up to shown as the respective slice radius.
one million token windows. By combining code
comprehension and repair tasks sourced from
GitHub, LCB provides a scalable and realistic
framework for assessing model performance on
long-context input. Our results show that current LCLMs often degrade performance at
scale, revealing a gap between claimed and effective context capabilities. LCB highlights
these challenges and offers a foundation for advancing long-context modeling in realistic
software engineering settings.

10

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

Acknowledgments
We thank Luca Rigazio and Yoshikuni Sato for their valuable feedback and support during the development of LongCodeBench. We also acknowledge CINECA for providing
computational resources and infrastructure support—through access to the Leonardo supercomputer—that made the large-scale evaluations possible. Finally, we thank the anonymous
reviewers for their constructive feedback that helped improve the quality of this work.

Ethics statement
This research uses only publicly available data from open-source GitHub repositories. No
personal or sensitive information is included. All experiments comply with the terms of
service of the used platforms and APIs. We will release our dataset and code to support
transparency and reproducibility.

References
Anthropic. Claude 3 haiku: Our fastest model yet. https://www.anthropic.com/news/
claude-3-haiku, 2024.
Simone Balloccu, Patrı́cia Schmidtová, Mateusz Lango, and Ondrej Dusek. Leak, cheat,
repeat: Data contamination and evaluation malpractices in closed-source LLMs. In Yvette
Graham and Matthew Purver (eds.), Proceedings of the 18th Conference of the European
Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pp. 67–
93, St. Julian’s, Malta, March 2024. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL
https://aclanthology.org/2024.eacl-long.5/.
Egor Bogomolov, Aleksandra Eliseeva, Timur Galimzyanov, Evgeniy Glukhov, Anton
Shapkin, Maria Tigina, Yaroslav Golubev, Alexander Kovrigin, Arie van Deursen, Maliheh
Izadi, and Timofey Bryksin. Long code arena: a set of benchmarks for long-context code
models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.11612.
Federico Cassano, John Gouwar, Daniel Nguyen, Sydney Nguyen, Luna Phipps-Costin,
Donald Pinckney, Ming-Ho Yee, Yangtian Zi, Carolyn Jane Anderson, Molly Q Feldman,
Arjun Guha, Michael Greenberg, and Abhinav Jangda. Multipl-e: A scalable and polyglot approach to benchmarking neural code generation. IEEE Transactions on Software
Engineering, 49(7):3675–3691, 2023. doi: 10.1109/TSE.2023.3267446.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto,
Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. Evaluating large language models trained on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374, 2021.
GeminiTeamGoogle. Gemini: A family of highly capable multimodal models, 2024. URL
https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.11805.
Albert Gu and Tri Dao. Mamba: Linear-time sequence modeling with selective state spaces.
In First Conference on Language Modeling, 2024.
Albert Gu, Karan Goel, and Christopher Re. Efficiently modeling long sequences with
structured state spaces. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2022.
Cheng-Ping Hsieh, Simeng Sun, Samuel Kriman, Shantanu Acharya, Dima Rekesh, Fei Jia,
and Boris Ginsburg. RULER: What’s the real context size of your long-context language
models? In First Conference on Language Modeling, 2024.
JambaTeam. Jamba-1.5: Hybrid transformer-mamba models at scale, 2024. URL https:
//arxiv.org/abs/2408.12570.
Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and
Karthik R Narasimhan. SWE-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github
issues? In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2024.
11

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

Gregory Kamradt. Needle in a haystack - pressure testing llms. Github, 2023. URL
https://github.com/gkamradt/LLMTest NeedleInAHaystack/tree/main.
Tianyang Liu, Canwen Xu, and Julian McAuley. Repobench: Benchmarking repositorylevel code auto-completion systems. In The Twelfth International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2024.
LlamaTeam. The llama 3 herd of models, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.21783.
OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.08774.
Gabriel Orlanski, Kefan Xiao, Xavier Garcia, Jeffrey Hui, Joshua Howland, Jonathan
Malmaud, Jacob Austin, Rishabh Singh, and Michele Catasta. Measuring the impact of programming language distribution. In Andreas Krause, Emma Brunskill,
Kyunghyun Cho, Barbara Engelhardt, Sivan Sabato, and Jonathan Scarlett (eds.), Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on Machine Learning, volume 202 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pp. 26619–26645. PMLR, 23–29 Jul 2023. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/orlanski23a.html.
QwenTeam. Qwen2.5 technical report, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.15115.
Stephen Robertson and Hugo Zaragoza. The probabilistic relevance framework: Bm25 and
beyond. Found. Trends Inf. Retr., 2009.
Yi Tay, Mostafa Dehghani, Samira Abnar, Yikang Shen, Dara Bahri, Philip Pham, Jinfeng
Rao, Liu Yang, Sebastian Ruder, and Donald Metzler. Long range arena : A benchmark
for efficient transformers. In International Conference on Learning Representations, 2021.
Minzheng Wang, Longze Chen, Cheng Fu, Shengyi Liao, Xinghua Zhang, Bingli Wu,
Haiyang Yu, Nan Xu, Lei Zhang, Run Luo, Yunshui Li, Min Yang, Fei Huang, and
Yongbin Li. Leave no document behind: Benchmarking long-context llms with extended
multi-doc qa. In Proceedings of EMNLP, 2024.
Brandon T Willard and Rémi Louf. Efficient guided generation for llms. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2307.09702, 2023.
Yuhao Wu, Ming Shan Hee, Zhiqiang Hu, and Roy Ka-Wei Lee. Longgenbench: Benchmarking long-form generation in long context LLMs. In The Thirteenth International Conference
on Learning Representations, 2025.
Howard Yen, Tianyu Gao, Minmin Hou, Ke Ding, Daniel Fleischer, Peter Izsak, Moshe
Wasserblat, and Danqi Chen. HELMET: How to evaluate long-context models effectively
and thoroughly. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, 2025.
Xinrong Zhang, Yingfa Chen, Shengding Hu, Zihang Xu, Junhao Chen, Moo Hao, Xu Han,
Zhen Thai, Shuo Wang, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. ∞Bench: Extending long context
evaluation beyond 100K tokens. In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association
for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers). Association for Computational
Linguistics, 2024.

12

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

A

Further analysis on data collection

Here, we report additional experiments that guide the design of LCB’s data collection.
A.1

Performance on the small-scale dataset before and after the first filter

In this section, we analyze the impact of the initial filtering step on a small-scale dataset
of around 60 samples. Initially, this dataset is generated by converting GitHub issues into
multiple-choice questions using the prompt in Appendix B.1. Then, we assess model accuracy both before and after applying the prompt in Appendix B.2, which filters out questions
that do not require detailed, repository-specific knowledge. Results in Table 4 indicate a
substantial accuracy drop after filtering, confirming the importance and effectiveness of this
step in refining the dataset quality.
Model

Max. Context Length

Accuracy (%)
before filtering

Accuracy (%)
after filtering

128K
256K

92.9
76.2

62.3
64.6

Jamba 1.5 - 400B Large
Llama 3.1 - 405B Instruct

Table 4: Model accuracy comparison on a small dataset to test the effectiveness of the first
filter described in Appendix B. After testing the two models on the initial dataset, we filter
out questions that do not require repo-specific knowledge.
A.2

Performance on the complete dataset before final GPT-4o-based filtering

This section presents the results obtained on the complete LongCodeQA dataset following
the application of the prompts described in Appendix B.1 and B.2. Before the second
filter, the dataset includes questions explicitly identified as requiring repository-specific
comprehension, but it still includes questions that might be correctly answered without
repository context. Table 5 presents the accuracy of LCLMs on the LongCodeQA task,
evaluated at different context lengths ranging from 32K to 1M tokens after filtering. The
comparison includes both closed-source models (GPT-4o, Claude 3.5 Sonnet, Gemini 1.5
Pro, and Gemini 2 Flash) and open-source models (Qwen2.5, Jamba 1.5, and Llama 3.1).
The results indicate that while most models maintain strong performance at shorter and
moderate context lengths, accuracy reduces significantly at extreme lengths, such as the
1M token bracket (e.g., Qwen2.5 dropping to 54.5%). Models like Llama 3.1, Jamba 1.5,
and the Gemini series demonstrate stable performance across mid-to-high context lengths,
highlighting their robustness.
The last filtering step described in section 3.2 provides the final version presented in the main
paper. It exclusively contains challenging questions that only require detailed repository
analysis, which we show in Table 3.
Accuracy (%) after filtering
Model

32K

64K

128K

256K

512K

1M

Qwen2.5 - 14B Instruct
Jamba 1.5 - 400B Large
Llama 3.1 - 405B Instruct

75.8
83.2
83.2

75.3
77.6
83.0

82.5
81.1
83.6

79.4
72.9
-

82.0
74.2
-

54.5
-

GPT-4o
Gemini 2 Flash
Gemini 1.5 Pro
Claude 3.5 Sonnet

80.7
75.2
78.0
76.5

83.5
75.9
75.9
77.6

85.0
79.7
85.0
84.3

80.0
80.0
80.7

84.4
86.0
-

81.4
83.4
-

Table 5: Model performance for LongCodeQA task on the complete dataset after applying
prompts in Appendix B.1 and B.2.

13

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

B

Prompts

Here are reported the prompts used for generating the LongCodeQA dataset and for
prompting the LLMs.
B.1

Prompt to identify issues convertible into questions

This prompt assesses whether a GitHub issue can be reformulated as a multiple-choice
question.
You are an expert software engineer and teacher. You
are given a closed GitHub issue from a public repository and the comments on
the issue. Read the issue and assess whether it is simple enough that its
resolution boils down to clarifying a concept about the codebase. If so,
reexpress it as a multiple choice question with a correct answer and three
wrong answers.
Issue whose resolution required a pull request or a code change are examples
of issues that are not simple enough for this task.
Moreover, the question should be about both the underlying concept and the
codebase, not a general question about programming, software engineering, or
the language being used.
Examples of issues that are simple enough to be expressed as multiple choice
questions:
- Clarifying the behavior of a function, method, or module.
- Understanding the purpose of a variable or class.
- Explaining the flow of control in a code snippet.
- Explaining why a certain error occurs in a code snippet due to a subtle, but
wanted, behavior of the library being used.
Examples of issues that are not simple enough to be expressed as multiple
choice questions:
- Fixing a bug in the code.
- Implementing a new feature.
- Suggestions on what to pair with a certain library.
- Installation issues.
- Questions about the project's roadmap.
- Observations relating to software engineering practices.
Please provide reasoning to justify your decision. Be conservative, and only
consider issues as simple enough if it is clear beyond doubt that they are.
Issue {issue["title"]}: {issue["body"]}
Comments: {issue["comments"]}

B.2

Prompt to filter questions requiring repository-specific knowledge

This prompt filters the initially generated questions, including only those that require
detailed repository-specific knowledge to be accurately answered.
You are provided with a question about the repository {repo}. Your task is not to
answer the question directly but to evaluate whether an accurate answer requires a
detailed, up-to-date understanding of the repository, or if it can be answered
accurately using only your pre-existing knowledge (which may include exposure to the
repository during training) and general programming knowledge.
Please explain your reasoning in detail. At the end of your response, on a new line,
output only 'Yes' if you believe the question requires repository-specific knowledge
to answer accurately, or 'No' if you believe it can be answered correctly without
directly consulting the repository.
14

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

Here is the question:
{question and answers}

B.3

Prompt for LongCodeQA task

This prompt is used to answer multiple choice questions based on repository analysis.
You are going to be provided the content of a repository and a question about it.
Provide the answer to the question by stating ONLY the letter associated to the
question.
Repository:
{repo_text}
Question:
{question}

B.4

Prompt for LongSWE-Bench task

This prompt generates a patch file to address a coding issue described in a given repository.
You will be provided with a partial code base and an issue statement explaining a
problem to resolve.
<issue>
{issue_body}
</issue>
<code>
{repo_body}
</code>
Here is an example of a patch file. It consists of changes to the code base. It
specifies the file names, the line numbers of each change, and the removed and added
lines. A single patch file can contain changes to multiple files.
<patch>
--- a/file.py
+++ b/file.py
@@ -1,27 +1,35 @@
def euclidean(a, b):
while b:
a, b = b, a % b
return a
+
if b == 0:
+
return a
+
return euclidean(b, a % b)
[...truncated for brevity...]
</patch>
I need you to solve the provided issue by generating a single patch file that I can
apply directly to this repository using git apply. Please respond with a single patch
file in the format shown above.
Respond below:
15

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

C

Inference time and cost

Table 6 details the inference cost and resource requirements for the models evaluated on
LongCodeBench. For self-hosted models, we report both the GPU configuration and the
total runtime. For example, Qwen2.5 was run on 8×A100 80GB GPUs for LongSWE-Bench,
completing inference in 12 hours, and on 4×A100 64GB GPUs for LongCodeQA, taking 35
hours. In contrast, API-based models show varied costs depending on the provider and
context length. Claude 3.5 Sonnet incurs the highest cost, totaling 100 USD for LongCodeQA
and 140 USD for LongSWE-Bench. GPT-4o shows lower costs at 50 USD per task. Overall,
these figures underscore the high computational and financial burden of evaluating LCLMs
on long-context tasks, especially as context windows approach one million tokens.
Resources / Provider
8 NVIDIA A100 80GB
Qwen2.5 - 14B Instruct
4 NVIDIA A100 64GB
Self-hosted
Jamba 1.5 Large
20 NVIDIA A100 64GB
Llama 3.1 - 405B Instruct 20 NVIDIA A100 64GB

Hosted

Jamba 1.5 Large
Amazon Bedrock
Llama 3.1 - 405B Instruct Amazon Bedrock
GPT-4o
OpenAI
Gemini 2 Flash
Google AI
Gemini 1.5 Pro
Google AI
Claude 3.5 Sonnet
Anthropic

LongCodeQA LongSWE-Bench
35H
40H
40H

12H
-

50USD
20USD
300USD
100USD

70USD
30USD
50USD
30USD
700USD
140USD

Table 6: Inference cost and time on LCB for the models used in the experiments. For selfhosted models, GPU configuration and total inference time are reported; hosted (API-based)
models include provider and total inference cost in USD.

D

Comparison with SWE-Bench

The LongSWE-Bench task is inspired by Jimenez et al. (2024) but extends it to a significantly
longer context scenario. Specifically, we increase the maximum context length to one million
tokens and introduce a scalable, granular evaluation across multiple length brackets.
Another key difference with SWE-Bench is in the repository file selection for the context.
SWE-Bench uses the BM25 (Robertson & Zaragoza, 2009) retrieval algorithm, we always
include the ground-truth files and then add random files as a distraction. As observed
by the original SWE-Bench authors, the inclusion or omission of ground-truth files in the
prompt creates a sizable gap in performance. This implies that the benchmark results are a
combined measure of the models’ performance and the accuracy of the retrieval algorithm.
Our decision to always provide ground-truth files as context is for the objective of ensuring
the benchmark is an unbiased estimator of exclusively models’ performance.
For files provided as additional context, we rely on random retrieval for statistical reasons.
The creation of samples through relevance-based retrieval of documents introduces bias
in the data, as large codebases or other forms of long documents are rarely provided after
filtering for non-relevant documents. Random selection, instead, is a form of uniform
sampling. This way, we reduce bias at the cost of a higher variance. However, variance can
be controlled by providing a sufficiently large number of instances. In this context, random
retrieval provides the additional benefit of allowing us to retrieve more samples per issue, as
a different selection of the majority of files in a prompt changes the problem in meaningful
ways. Figures 5 and 6 show the difference in variance by selecting files randomly or with
the BM25 retrieval algorithm. The plots are supported by an analysis of relation between
context length and resolution rate through logistic regression. The random retrieval case
exhibits a p-value of 0.005, which is statistically significant. On the contrary, the p-value for
BM25 is larger than 0.01.
16

Published as a conference paper at COLM 2025

Figure 5: Percentage of solved issues by Claude 3.5 Sonnet on a smaller version of
LongSWE-Bench, grouped by bins of equal length range. The red line indicates
a trend extracted through logistic regression, with a p-value of 0.005—below the
threshold (0.01) of statistical significance.

Figure 6: Percentage of solved issues by Claude 3.5 Sonnet on a smaller version
of LongSWE-Bench in which non-oracle files are retrieved with BM25, grouped
by bins of equal length range. The red line indicates a trend extracted through
logistic regression with a p-value of 0.025—above the threshold (0.01) of statistical
significance.

17

