RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for
Repository-Level Automated Program Repair
ZHONGQIANG PAN, CHUANYI LI∗ , WENKANG ZHONG, YI FENG, and BIN LUO, State

arXiv:2603.01048v1 [cs.SE] 1 Mar 2026

Key Laboratory for Novel Software Technology, Nanjing University, China
VINCENT NG, Human Language Technology Research Institute, University of Texas at Dallas, USA
Automated program repair (APR) struggles to scale from isolated functions to full repositories, as it demands a
global, task-aware understanding to locate necessary changes. Current methods, limited by context and reliant
on shallow retrieval or costly agent iterations, falter on complex cross-file issues. To this end, we propose
RepoRepair, a novel documentation-enhanced approach for repository-level fault localization and program
repair. Our core insight is to leverage LLMs to generate hierarchical code documentation (from functions to files)
for code repositories, creating structured semantic abstractions that enable LLMs to comprehend repositorylevel context and dependencies. Specifically, RepoRepair first employs a text-based LLM (e.g., DeepSeek-V3) to
generate file/function-level code documentation for repositories, which serves as auxiliary knowledge to guide
fault localization. Subsequently, based on the fault localization results and the issue description, a powerful
LLM (e.g., Claude-4) attempts to repair the identified suspicious code snippets. Evaluated on SWE-bench Lite,
RepoRepair achieves a 45.7% repair rate at a low cost of $0.44 per fix. On SWE-bench Multimodal, it delivers
state-of-the-art performance with a 37.1% repair rate despite a higher cost of $0.56 per fix, demonstrating
robust and cost-effective performance across diverse problem domains.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Repository-Level Program Repair, Code Documentation, Large Language
Model
ACM Reference Format:
Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng. 2018. RepoRepair: Leveraging
Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. 37, 4,
Article 111 (August 2018), 27 pages. https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX

1

INTRODUCTION

The rapid evolution of large language models (LLMs) such as GPT-4[22] and DeepSeek-V3[9]
has profoundly impacted software engineering, particularly in automating core development
activities including code synthesis[6, 18, 24], translation[23, 26, 27], and repair[4, 40, 42]. While these
advancements demonstrate proficiency in constrained settings, a critical gap persists when scaling
to repository-level software maintenance. Here, the objective shifts from generating syntactically
correct code snippets to executing semantically correct changes within a sprawling, interdependent
codebase. This entails not merely parsing thousands of lines but discerning architectural intent,
implicit contracts, and often non-textual cues from issue reports. Consequently, models must
∗ Corresponding Author.

Authors’ addresses: Zhongqiang Pan, 602023720002@smail.nju.edu.cn; Chuanyi Li, lcy@nju.edu.cn; Wenkang Zhong,
zhongwenkang97@foxmail.com; Yi Feng, fy@nju.edu.cn; Bin Luo, luobin@nju.edu.cn, State Key Laboratory for Novel
Software Technology, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China; Vincent Ng, vince@hlt.utdallas.edu, Human Language Technology
Research Institute, University of Texas at Dallas, Richardson, Texas, USA.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the
full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the author(s) must be honored.
Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires
prior specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2018 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
1049-331X/2018/8-ART111 $15.00
https://doi.org/XXXXXXX.XXXXXXX
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111

111:2

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

overcome two intertwined barriers: the prohibitive context window consumption of raw repository
data and the semantic dispersion of fault-relevant information across multiple files and modalities,
challenges that remain inadequately addressed by current paradigms.
To systematically evaluate the capability of LLMs in addressing real-world software engineering
tasks, numerous benchmarks have been proposed. In program repair, Jimenez and Yang established
two benchmark datasets in 2023 and 2024: SWE-bench[13] and a multi-modal version SWE-bench
Multimodal[47]. Both datasets comprise real-world GitHub issue descriptions paired with the
corresponding code repositories. Since the introduction of SWE-bench, the highest resolution
rate in its most widely used subset, SWE-bench Lite, has increased from the initial 3% to 60%
(excluding proprietary tools)1 . However, these tools demonstrate significantly inferior performance
on SWE-bench Multimodal. For instance, the current state-of-the-art repair tool Agentless Lite2 ,
which achieves a 32.33% resolution rate on SWE-bench Lite, experiences a notable performance
drop to only 25.34% on SWE-bench Multimodal. This performance gap arises primarily from two
factors. First, many tools are designed without sufficient consideration for programming language
generalization, resulting in core modules tightly coupled with Python (the back-end language in
SWE-bench). For example, most of the tools provided by AutoCodeRover[48] are highly based
on Python-specific program analysis features and even require prior knowledge of the specific
repositories in SWE-bench. Second, while some tools (e.g., SWE-Agent[46] and Agentless[39]) have
decoupled from programming languages and can operate across languages, their utilization of
repository information remains superficial, limited to directory structure trees and fragmented
code snippets retrieved through search. This limitation is particularly problematic in SWE-bench
Multimodal, where issues are often more complex and may span multiple files, making it difficult
for these tools to accurately localize all suspicious code segments through superficial repository
information alone. These limitations collectively point to a fundamental challenge: the lack of a
structured, semantic representation of the repository that can effectively bridge the gap between
high-level issue descriptions and low-level code changes.
To address the fundamental challenge of achieving deep, semantic understanding of repositories for automated program repair, we propose RepoRepair, a novel documentation-enhanced
approach. Our work is motivated by a key insight: in software development, code documentation
systematically abstracts implementation details, thereby serving as a crucial cognitive aid for program comprehension and maintenance[8, 43, 49]. We posit that leveraging LLMs to generate such
structured documentation can create an effective intermediary representation, bridging the gap
between high-level issue descriptions and the low-level code changes required for repair. While Luo
and Ye demonstrated the utility of LLM-generated documentation for Python repositories[20], we
significantly extend and innovate upon this concept. Specifically, we introduce a novel hierarchical
fault localization mechanism driven by two-tiered documentation: file-level documentation filters
suspicious files, while subsequent function-level documentation pinpoints the exact suspicious
classes or functions. This structured approach allows our method to overcome the superficial
repository utilization of prior tools. RepoRepair operates in two stages: (1) In the localization
stage, the hierarchical documentation is exclusively utilized to achieve precise fault localization;
(2) In the repair stage, we introduce a novel, context-aware pipeline. This pipeline first prunes the
localized code to construct a dependency-preserving repair context, then generates minimal diffformatted patches, and finally validates them through an iterative, combinatorial testing strategy.
This cohesive two-stage design enables that the deep understanding gained during localization

1 https://www.swebench.com/index.html (accessed September 2025)
2 https://github.com/sorendunn/Agentless-Lite

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:3

is effectively translated into correct and reliable code changes, maximizing repair accuracy while
maintaining strict cost control.
To evaluate the efficacy of RepoRepair, we conduct comprehensive experiments on two benchmark suites: the widely-adopted SWE-bench Lite and the more challenging SWE-bench Multimodal.
Our experimental pipeline involves: (i) parsing source files using the open-source tree-sitter library3 ; (ii) generating hierarchical documentation via LLM; and (iii) processing issue descriptions
(including multimodal content) during localization and repair. On SWE-bench Lite, RepoRepair
achieves a competitive repair rate of 45.7% at an average cost of just $0.44 per fix, accompanied by
a high file-level fault localization accuracy of 77.6%. The superiority of our RepoRepair becomes
even more pronounced on the complex SWE-bench Multimodal benchmark. RepoRepair attains
a state-of-the-art repair rate of 37.1% with excellent cost efficiency ($0.56 per fix). Crucially, it
achieves 59.8% accuracy in file-level fault localization—representing a nearly 30% absolute improvement over the prior best tool, Agentless Lite. This dramatic improvement in localization
directly underpins the superior repair performance, demonstrating that our method excels precisely where prior approaches struggle: in comprehending and resolving complex, cross-file issues.
These results collectively validate the generalizability, effectiveness, and practical efficiency of
our documentation-enhanced framework across diverse programming environments and problem
complexities.
The main contributions of this work are threefold:
• A Documentation-Enhanced Repair Framework: We propose RepoRepair, a novel agentfree framework that (1) leverages hierarchical code documentation to significantly improve
LLM-based fault localization from issue descriptions, and (2) implements an effective repair
pipeline featuring combinatorial patch validation and temperature-based iterative generation
to ensure robust patch generation.
• Exhaustive Performance Benchmarking: The systematic comparison with established
baselines on both the SWE-bench and SWE-bench Multimodal benchmarks, evaluating not
only final resolution rates but also quantifying differences in accuracy of file retrieval and
file localization in the stage of localization.
• Available Artifacts: To facilitate reproducibility and future work, we publicly release all
experimental artifacts (generated code documentation, source code, and results) in the Github
repository: https://github.com/ZhongQiangDev/RepoRepair.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related work. Section 3 details
the design of RepoRepair. Section 4 describes the experimental setup, followed by Section 5 which
presents the experimental results. Section 6 discusses threats to validity, and Section 7 outlines
limitations. Finally, Section 8 concludes the paper and suggests directions for future work.
2
2.1

RELATED WORK
Repository-level Automated Program Repair

In the field of automatic program repair (APR), Defects4J[15] has long been considered the standard
benchmark. However, with the introduction of SWE-bench benchmark by Jimenez and Yang[13] in
2024, the focus of research has progressively shifted from traditional bug-fixing tasks at the function
level to more challenging repository-level program repair. Crucially, many high-performing APR
techniques in Defects4J, such as AlphaRepair[41] and RepairLLaMA[29], are exclusively designed
to repair identified functions within known buggy files. These architectures are inadequate for
repository-level program repair, which requires not only patch generation but also accurate file
localization across the entire repository, substantially increasing task complexity.
3 https://github.com/tree-sitter/tree-sitter

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:4

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Early explorations in repository-level APR often decoupled the localization and repair challenges.
On the localization front, works like FuseFL[37] integrated traditional fault localization (e.g.,
SBFL) with LLMs to generate reasoning, while LLMAO[44] fine-tuned code models for direct linelevel localization. Conversely, on the repair front, methods like RLCE (Repository-Level Context
Extraction)[7] focused on retrieving relevant code snippets to enhance LLM-based patch generation,
demonstrating improved performance on their self-constructed RepoBugs benchmark. These
approaches, however, typically assumed that relevant files were pre-identified or operated under
less stringent end-to-end constraints. The advent of the SWE-bench benchmark, which pairs realworld GitHub issues with full repositories, formalized the need for truly integrated systems that
perform both localization and repair from scratch. The seminal work by Jimenez and Yang[13]
itself proposed a retrieval-and-repair baseline, though initial results were low (3% on SWE-bench
Lite), highlighting the difficulty. This challenge spurred the development of more sophisticated
methods, which can be broadly categorized into agent-based and agent-free paradigms.
With the rise of agent frameworks, Jimenez and Yang introduced SWE-Agent[46], the first
agent-based repository-level APR approach. SWE-Agent employs an Agent-Computer Interface
(ACI) to navigate repositories, edit files, and run tests. Concurrently, Zhang et al. proposed
AutoCodeRover[48], which extracts structural specifications to guide the agent. Following this,
multi-agent frameworks emerged: CodeR[5] employs specialized agents collaborating via task
graphs, while SWE-Search[3] uses Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS)[30] for dynamic planning.
Recently, more performant agent-based approaches such as OpenHands[33], OpenHands-Versa[31],
and ExpeRepair[21] have demonstrated superior capabilities. However, agent-based approaches
suffer from inherent limitations: they may uncritically accept misleading feedback and incur high
computational costs due to excessive interaction rounds.
To mitigate these issues, Xia and Deng proposed Agentless[39], an agent-free APR method
that adopts a streamlined two-stage localization-repair pipeline without requiring LLMs to decide
actions or use complex tools. Surprisingly, Agentless matches or surpasses many agent-based tools
in performance while drastically reducing costs, demonstrating the viability of agentless methods.
More recently, GUIRepair[11] was specifically proposed for the SWE-bench Multimodal benchmark.
It introduces dedicated Image2Code and Code2Image modules to process visual information (e.g.,
screenshots) and enhance repair accuracy for front-end issues, further advancing the agent-free
paradigm. While methods like Agentless and GUIRepair rely on raw code retrieval or visual processing, our proposed RepoRepair leverages hierarchically generated code documentation to capture
semantic relationships across files, enabling more accurate localization and repair—particularly for
issues requiring global repository understanding. It strengthens semantic representation through
structured documentation, offering a distinct advancement in the agent-free paradigm.
2.2

Automated Code Documentation Generation

In software engineering, early automated documentation generation approaches[2, 10, 12, 16, 32, 34]
are designed to alleviate developers’ maintenance burdens by producing descriptive summaries
for source code. However, these approaches suffered from a critical limitation: they focused solely
on summarizing isolated code snippets while neglecting dependency relationships within broader
repository-level contexts, often resulting in poor summarization.
To address this limitation, Luo and Ye proposed RepoAgent[20], an agent-based automated
code documentation framework designed for proactive generation, maintenance, and updating
of code documentation in Python repositories. RepoAgent integrates three core modules: Global
Structure Analysis (to capture repository-wide dependencies), Documentation Generation, and
Documentation Update. Through blind preference testing, RepoAgent’s generated documentation
is shown to be favored over human-written documentation by evaluators. Similarly, Yang et al.
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:5

introduced DocAgent[45], a multi-agent system that tackles the same limitation by processing code
in topological order and emulating human workflows. DocAgent employs five specialized agents,
Reader, Searcher, Writer, Verifier, and Orchestrator, to collaboratively produce high-quality code
documentation for Python Repository.
While these works demonstrate the viability of automated, repository-aware documentation, they
are primarily designed as general-purpose documentation tools. In contrast, our work repurposes
and significantly adapts this paradigm for a specific downstream task: automated program repair.
Building upon the foundational idea of LLM-generated documentation, we design a prompt-based
generation approach that produces hierarchical documentation (function-level and file-level) explicitly optimized for fault localization. This task-driven design ensures the documentation captures
the precise semantic and dependency information needed to guide repair, directly enhancing the
effectiveness of our pipeline while improving scalability and cross-lingual adaptability.
3

REPOREPAIR

Figure 1 illustrates the overview of our proposed approach, RepoRepair, which consists of three key
stages: Documentation Generation, Localization, and Repair. In the stages of Documentation
Generation, we employ LLM to generate function-level and file-level code documentation for
all code files in the target repository. In the stage of Localization, we first perform text-based
retrieval to identify files whose file-level code documentation exhibits high semantic similarity to
the issue description. Next, based on the issue description and the file-level code documentation we
generated, we let LLM localize and rank the suspicious files that are most likely to need modification
to solve the issue. Since not all content in these files may need editing, we further let LLM localize
the functions/classes that need to be modified in each file based on the issue description and the
function-level code documentation. In the stage of Repair, based on the functions/classes localized
in each file, we first delete the contents (code and comments) of the remaining functions/classes
that do not need to be modified and prune the content of the file for a minimal repair context. Then,
we let LLM modify the content of each file and generate a diff format patch to attempt to solve the
issue existing in the issue description. Finally, we verify these generated patches and select the
most plausible patch of single or multiple files as the final submission. The complete workflow of
RepoRepair is formalized in Algorithm 1, and each stage will be described in detail in the following
subsections.
3.1

Documentation Generation

As previously discussed, code documentation systematically describes implementation logic, significantly aiding developers in comprehending functionality, a critical factor for the program repair
task that requires deep code understanding. However, manually creating high-quality code documentation for the entire repository requires substantial time, labor, and financial resources[49].
More critically, as the repository evolves, code documentation requires synchronous updates, yet
most projects lack sufficient resources or incentives to maintain real-time documentation freshness.
To overcome this barrier and enable scalable, automated code understanding, we adopt a strategy
of generating comprehensive, hierarchical code documentation for the entire repository. This
foundational step, while computationally intensive, is critical for two reasons. First, it provides
a complete and consistent knowledge base for the subsequent localization stage, ensuring that
no potentially relevant code is overlooked during cross-file analysis—a common challenge in
large-scale repositories. Second, by generating documentation incrementally as the repository
evolves (detailed later in this section), we amortize the initial generation cost over time, aligning
with real-world development workflows where issues are addressed sequentially. This approach is
inspired by RepoAgent’s methodology[20], shifting from general repository comprehension to a
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:6

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Fig. 1. Overview of RepoRepair.

targeted, hierarchical documentation system (function-level and file-level) explicitly designed to
guide precise fault localization and repair.
Generate function-level documentation. Before generating documentation, we first convert
all source files into a uniform intermediate representation. Using Tree-sitter and its multi-language
grammars, we parse code into ASTs to systematically extract key program constructs—functions,
classes, imports, and calls—while abstracting away syntactic particulars. This normalized representation decouples documentation generation from language-specific syntax, allowing consistent
semantic extraction across Python, JavaScript, TypeScript, and other supported languages. From
the parsed ASTs, we then extract critical information for all functions/classes, including name,
signature, context, dependencies, etc. For anonymous functions in JavaScript/TypeScript, such as
arrow functions or function expressions, we assign standardized names in the format function_X,
where X is a unique number. This process guarantees that the generated documentation contains
complete structural metadata, providing a reliable foundation for subsequent fault localization.
Subsequently, to generate high-quality documentation, we construct a prompt (Figure 2(a)) that
includes the complete source code of the target function or class alongside its extracted metadata.
We provide the full implementation rather than a summary or snippets to ensure the LLM has
access to all necessary contextual details (e.g., internal logic, variable usage, and control flow)
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:7

Algorithm 1 RepoRepair
Require: Code repository R, issue description I
Ensure: Repair patch P ∗ or ∅
1: Stage 1: Documentation Generation
2: D ← GenerateDocumentation(R)
3: Stage 2: Localization
4: Q ← Textualize(I)
⊲ Convert multimodal issue to text
5: F𝑠 ← LocalizeFiles(Q, D)
6: N𝑠 ← LocalizeCodeUnits(F𝑠 , Q)
7: if F𝑠 = ∅ or N𝑠 = ∅ then
8:
return ∅
⊲ Cannot localize the issue
9: end if
10: Stage 3: Repair
11: for 𝑇 ∈ [0.0, 0.9] step 0.1 do
12:
Pall ← GeneratePatches(F𝑠 , N𝑠 , Q,𝑇 )
⊲ Generate 𝐶 (𝑛, 𝑘) combinatorial patches
13:
Pvalid ← ValidatePatches(Pall, R)
14:
if Pvalid ≠ ∅ then
15:
P ∗ ← arg min𝑃 ∈ Pvalid NumModifiedFiles(𝑃)
16:
return P ∗
⊲ Return the patch for final submission
17:
end if
18: end for
19: return ∅
⊲ Repair failed
for producing accurate and informative descriptions. This input is then processed by the LLM to
generate standardized code documentation containing: parameter introductions, code descriptions,
usage notes, and output examples, formatted as shown in Figure 1.
Generate file-level documentation. After generating function-level code documentation for
all files, we proceed to generate file-level code documentation. This higher-level abstraction shifts
focus from implementation details to summarizing each file’s overall purpose and architectural
role within the repository—information crucial for the initial file retrieval and ranking steps in the
localization stage.
This process takes two key inputs: (1) all function-level code documentation for the file, and (2) the
project’s structural tree, which provides crucial context about the file’s position and relationships
within the repository hierarchy. We input these elements to the LLM using a prompt (Figure 2(b))
that instructs it to generate comprehensive documentation containing: (1) a concise summary of
each function/class’s functionality and (2) a high-level description of the file’s architectural role
and dependencies within the project. The resulting documentation, formatted as shown in Figure 1,
captures both the implementation specifics and the architectural significance of each file, enabling
more effective repository-level understanding for subsequent localization and repair tasks.
3.2

Localization

To implement bug fixes or new features, accurate localization in the source code is fundamentally
essential - without correct localization, correct modifications cannot be made. However, the challenge lies in the fact that the repository may contain hundreds or even thousands of code files,
each potentially comprising thousands of lines of code, while the actual edit location might be just
a few lines within a specific function/class. To address this challenge, we employ a hierarchical
three-step localization pipeline: (i) retrieving files with high relevance to the issue, (ii) identifying
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:8

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Fig. 2. Prompt Texts for Generating Code Documentation.

suspicious files among them, and (iii) localizing the specific functions/classes related to the issue in
each suspicious file.
Retrieve most relevant files. Given that the repository typically contains hundreds of code files
while only a few may need modification, directly inputting all corresponding source code would
result in prohibitively long contexts. To address this, we employ file-level code documentation as a
proxy for retrieval instead of raw code. This design choice is motivated by two key considerations:
(i) Efficiency: Documentation provides a condensed, semantically rich representation of each file’s
purpose and key functionalities, drastically reducing token count compared to full source code. (ii)
Alignment with Natural Language Queries: Since issue descriptions are written in natural language,
matching them against similarly structured documentation (rather than raw syntax) facilitates more
accurate semantic retrieval. Specifically, we first vectorize all documentation using an embedding
model and construct indices, then use the issue description as a query to retrieve the most relevant
files.
Inspired by previous multimodal retrieval work[19], our approach strategically unifies all queryside information (including visual details such as screenshots) into textual representations before
matching with the text-only code documentation database. This design offers two key advantages:
(i) It avoids reliance on general-purpose multimodal embeddings (e.g., CLIP[25]) that may not
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:9

Fig. 3. Multimodal Issue Description Processing for Retrieval.

be optimized for capturing front-end-specific code-visual relationships; (ii) It shifts the complex
cross-modal alignment task to the powerful LLM during query processing, eliminating the need for
real-time multimodal similarity computation during retrieval, thus improving efficiency. Specifically,
for a multimodal issue description, we use a multimodal LLM to generate a comprehensive textual
analysis of the issue, describing all possible error behaviors and root causes (shown in Figure 3).
This generated text then serves as the retrieval query.
Localize to suspicious files. To identify suspicious files from the retrieved set, we continue
to provide LLM with file-level code documentation rather than the complete source code. This is
a deliberate continuation of our efficiency-focused design. While providing the full code might
offer marginally more context, the accompanying surge in token volume would severely limit the
number of files we can practically present to the LLM for analysis within budget constraints. The
documentation, having been distilled to capture architectural roles and key functionalities, provides
sufficient high-level context for the LLM to reason about which files are most likely to contain
the fault, as demonstrated by its use of Chain-of-Thought (COT)[36] reasoning in our example.
When analyzing the issue "carbon-design-system/carbon-3918" where "OverflowMenu keyboard
navigation fails inside DataTable", the COT process first identifies the core error behavior ("no
visual indicators for keyboard navigation in DataTable-embedded OverflowMenu"), then analyzes
root causes such as missing keyboard event handlers in "DataTable.js" or conflicting focus-state
styles in "OverflowMenu.scss", before finally correlating these with relevant files. This approach
ensures that localization decisions are based on a deep understanding of component interaction
rather than superficial keyword matching.
Localize to related functions/classes. After identifying suspicious files, we further localize
the specific functions/classes requiring modification. Here, we again use function-level code documentation as the input context. We deliberately avoid using more concise "file skeletons" (e.g.,
just function signatures) as done in some prior work[39], because such skeletons fail to capture
anonymous functions and lack implementation context, which are critical for accurate localization
in JavaScript/TypeScript codebases. Conversely, providing the full source code of all functions
would be computationally prohibitive. Function-level documentation strikes an optimal balance: it
is far more compact than full code, yet rich enough in semantic detail (describing logic, parameters,
and behavior) to enable precise pinpointing of the relevant code units.
Notably, the function-level localization phase also serves as an essential verification mechanism
for the preceding file-level localization. If the process fails to identify any relevant functions/classes
within the suspicious files, this indicates potential inaccuracies in the previous file localization. In
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:10

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Fig. 4. Pruning a Code File.

such cases, our approach automatically discards the current set of suspicious files and re-executes
the file localization process to obtain a more reliable result.
3.3

Repair

During the repair stage, our final goal is to generate correct patches that effectively resolve the issue.
Constructing an effective repair context presents a dual challenge: it must contain enough semantic
information to guide correct code modifications, yet remain concise to avoid overwhelming the
LLM with irrelevant content. Traditional approaches often resort to arbitrary truncation or retain
entire files, both of which can obscure critical dependencies or introduce noise.
To address this, we implement a dependency-aware code pruning strategy (illustrated in Figure
4), which moves beyond simple context-window truncation by selectively retaining code based
on semantic relevance and static references. This design reflects a deliberate trade-off that is
particularly effective in front-end and multi-file repair scenarios. Specifically, we preserve three
categories of content: (i) all localized functions or classes identified as primary edit targets; (ii)
essential file-level constructs such as import/require statements and global variable declarations
that provide structural scaffolding; and (iii) any non-localized functions or classes that are statically
referenced by the preserved repair targets, ensuring intra-file dependency integrity.
Crucially, our strategy incorporates a dependency-aware preservation rule to address data
and control flow concerns: we retain not only localized code but also any unlocalized functions
or classes that are statically referenced by it within the same file. This ensures that immediate,
in-file dependencies are maintained, directly mitigating the risk of overlooking relevant context.
The counterpart is the aggressive removal of all other code—specifically, implementations of
unlocalized and unreferenced units. We explicitly choose this trade-off for efficiency and focus:
while preserving full transitive dependencies could offer theoretical completeness, it would cause
context explosion (especially in modular front-end codebases), dilute the LLM’s attention with
indirectly related code, and nullify the efficiency gains of our targeted localization. Our evaluation
validates that for typical UI-based issues, this triad—localized code, its direct dependencies, and
file-level scaffolding—provides a sufficiently rich yet focused context, maximizing repair accuracy
while strictly controlling computational cost.
Generate patch. We sequentially input the pruned code files into LLM, which then generates
diff-formatted patches based on the issue description for each file, rather than producing complete
replacement code segments. Specifically, these diff patches consist of Search/Replace edit pairs4
containing two key components: (i) the search segment (original code to be modified) and (ii) the
replacement segment (new code). To apply such patches to the original code files, one simply
4 https://aider.chat/

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:11

matches the search segment and substitutes it with the corresponding replacement segment.
This kind of diff patch offers three significant advantages over complete code generation: first,
it constrains LLM to focus on minimal, targeted modifications rather than complete rewrites;
second, it dramatically improves cost-efficiency by reducing output size and complexity; and third,
it enhances reliability and accuracy by significantly lowering the probability of hallucinations that
often occur when generating large code blocks from scratch.
Verify patch. To ensure the correctness and reliability of the generated patches, we adopt a
systematic, iterative validation pipeline that integrates traditional software engineering testing
practices. The workflow, detailed in Algorithm 1, proceeds as follows:
1. Patch Collection per Iteration: For a given issue, after the LLM generates candidate patches
(one per localized file), we do not validate them individually. Instead, we aggregate patches into
logically grouped sets based on the number of concurrently modified files. Specifically, within
each validation iteration, we collect all possible patch combinations across the 𝑛 localized files,
starting from single-file patches (𝐶 (𝑛, 1) sets), followed by two-file combinations (𝐶 (𝑛, 2) sets), up
to the full set of all 𝑛 patches applied together (𝐶 (𝑛, 𝑛) set). This comprehensive combinatorial
approach allows us to evaluate not only isolated changes but also potential synergistic or conflicting
modifications across multiple files.
2. Batch Validation: All patch combinations collected in a single iteration are validated in parallel
against the repository’s existing test suite, performing regression testing [38]. Among those combinations that pass all tests, we employ a minimal-change criterion: select the patch combination that
modifies the fewest number of files. Formally, we choose P ∗ = arg min𝑃 ∈ Ppass |Files(𝑃)|, where
Ppass denotes the set of all patch combinations that pass validation. This preference for smaller
changes aligns with software maintenance best practices, favoring localized fixes that reduce the
risk of unintended side effects. If no patch combination passes the tests in the current batch, the
entire batch is discarded.
3. Temperature-based Iteration: If no patch combination from the current batch passes all tests,
we initiate a new repair iteration. In each subsequent iteration, we increment the LLM’s sampling
temperature by 0.1 (starting from 0) to introduce controlled variation in the generated patches,
encouraging diverse solutions. This loop continues until either a valid patch combination is found
or the temperature reaches 0.9. The iterative, temperature-annealing strategy balances exploration
of the repair space with the need for deterministic convergence.
4
4.1

EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Dataset

To rigorously assess RepoRepair’s efficacy and generalizability, we conduct experiments on two
benchmarks that represent distinct facets of real-world repair: SWE-bench Lite and SWE-bench
Multimodal. This dual evaluation tests whether our documentation-enhanced approach can handle
both traditional code-centric bugs and emerging challenges in modern web development that require
understanding visual UI behavior. SWE-bench Lite consists of 323 issues (23 in the ’dev’ subset
and 300 in the ’test’ subset) drawn from Python repositories, featuring purely textual problem
descriptions and predominantly single-file modifications. In contrast, SWE-bench Multimodal
comprises 619 issues (102 in the ’dev’ subset and 517 in the ’test’ subset) from JavaScript/TypeScript
repositories, incorporating multimodal information (both textual and visual elements) in issue
descriptions and frequently involving more complex, cross-file changes.
The key distinctions between these two benchmarks lie in programming language diversity, issue
description modalities, and repair complexity. While SWE-bench Lite focuses on Python-based issues with text-only descriptions, SWE-bench Multimodal extends the evaluation to JavaScript/TypeScript
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:12

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

environments with rich multimodal context. Empirical observations confirm that approaches achieving high performance on SWE-bench Lite consistently demonstrate significantly lower results on
SWE-bench Multimodal, indicating its inherently greater challenge level.
Furthermore, given that SWE-bench Lite was introduced over a year ago and the rapid iteration
of large language models raises inevitable data leakage concerns, evaluation limited solely to SWEbench Lite becomes increasingly insufficient. Therefore, conducting comprehensive evaluation on
both benchmarks—particularly the more recent and challenging SWE-bench Multimodal—provides
a more rigorous and practical assessment of program repair capabilities.
4.2

Baselines

To ensure a fair and comprehensive evaluation, we establish a systematic set of criteria for selecting
baseline tools. Our selection aims to capture the state-of-the-art across three critical dimensions:
generalizability, architectural relevance, and reproducibility.
General Baselines. To ensure our comparison reflects generalizability across benchmarks, we
include all three tools that have been officially evaluated on both SWE-bench Lite and SWE-bench
Multimodal: RAG[13], SWE-Agent[46], and Agentless[39]. This ensures that our primary baselines
are capable of handling both traditional code-only issues and emerging multimodal scenarios,
providing a common ground for cross-dataset performance analysis.
Architecturally Relevant Baselines. For architectural relevance, we select Agentless Lite (the
best-performing variant of Agentless) as our primary architectural baseline. This decision is based
on its streamlined two-stage pipeline—first retrieving relevant files via embedding models, then
iteratively generating repairs based on the top retrieved files—which shares key design principles
with our approach (retrieval-augmented, context-aware repair) while maintaining computational
efficiency. This focused comparison allows us to isolate and analyze the impact of our specific
contributions, such as hierarchical documentation and code pruning, against a conceptually similar
but implementationally distinct baseline.
Benchmark-Specific Baselines. To ensure comprehensiveness within each benchmark’s ecosystem, we include all major, reproducible open-source tools specifically reported on each dataset.
For SWE-bench Lite, this encompasses six additional tools: AutoCodeRover[48], OpenHands[33],
PatchPilot[17], DARS[1], ExpeRepair[21], SWE-Search[3], and SpecRover[28]. For SWE-bench
Multimodal, we include two additional tools: OpenHands-Multimodal[31] and GUIRepair[11]. This
ensures our evaluation covers the full spectrum of published solutions in each domain, preventing
selection bias and enabling a thorough assessment of capabilities across language-specific features,
multimodal adaptation, and repair complexity.
4.3

Detailed Settings of RepoRepair

In the documentation generation stage of RepoRepair, we use DeepSeek-V3[9] (DeepSeek-V3-0324)
to generate both function-level and file-level code documentation. To ensure deterministic output
and factual accuracy, we set the sampling temperature to 0 while keeping all other parameters at
their default values. For the localization and repair phases, we use a multimodal LLM Claude 4
(claude-4-sonnet-20250514), configuring the sampling temperature similarly to 0 and fixing the
random seed to guarantee stable and reproducible output. For dynamic visual input (e.g., GIFs and
videos) to the multimodal LLM, we extract key frames by computing the Structural Similarity Index
(SSIM)[35] between consecutive frames. This preprocessing step ensures efficient representation of
temporal visual information while preserving critical content.
In the documentation generation stage, we treat all issues within a repository as representing its
evolving state across different periods rather than independent projects. Our approach processes
issues in strict ascending order of their GitHub-assigned IDs (which follow chronological sequence)
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:13

and implements incremental code documentation generation. When code documentation of a
previous issue exists, we only generate documentation for files that differ from the prior issue’s state.
This strategy offers two advantages: it optimizes token usage by avoiding redundant documentation
of unchanged files and accurately mirrors real-world repository maintenance workflows. Although
this mechanism may incur substantial token costs during initial stages, the average cost per issue
gradually decreases as the number of resolved issues increases, resulting in significant long-term
efficiency gains.
In the localization stage, our retrieval process uses sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v25
model as the embedding model to store vectorized representations in a FAISS[14] database. For
each issue description, we retrieve the top-50 most relevant files based on semantic similarity. Two
practical nuances affect the actual number of files retrieved: (i) if duplicate files appear in the top-50
results, deduplication reduces the final count; (ii) when an issue description is processed through
multiple queries, the union of results across queries may exceed 50 files. After retrieval, we proceed
to localize the top-5 most suspicious files from the retrieved set and then localize all potentially
relevant functions/classes within them, without quantity restrictions.
In the repair stage, we adopt an iterative validation approach as described in Section 3.3. To
balance repair exploration with computational efficiency, we set the LLM temperature to increase by
0.1 in each iteration until reaching 0.9. All patch combinations within a batch are validated in parallel
against the repository’s existing test suite, subject to a per-process timeout threshold of one minute.
If the validation of any individual patch combination exceeds this limit, that specific combination
is considered failed; the validation of other combinations in the batch proceeds independently.
4.4

Evaluation Metrics

For evaluation on SWE-bench Lite and SWE-bench Multimodal, we adopt the established metrics
from prior work [39, 47, 48]: (1) %Resolved - the percentage of issues successfully fixed in the
benchmark. Notably, for repository-level evaluation, all patches are validated via automated test
suites; any patch that passes is considered correct, and the distinction of "plausible patch" is no
longer used. (2) Avg. $Cost - the average inference cost per tool run. Additionally, we introduce
%Correct Localization - the percentage of cases where the tool’s localized files exactly match
those modified in developer patches. We measure this metric at the stage of localization, considering
localization to be correct if RepoRepair’s localized file set fully contains all developer-patched
files. It is a recall-oriented metric used in prior work[39] to assess whether a tool can successfully
identify all relevant fault locations, even at the potential cost of including some false positives. For
baseline tools, we use officially reported test results from their repositories.
5

EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS

5.1

Overall Performance

Table 1 presents the overall performance metrics (%Resolved and Avg. $Cost) on the SWE-bench Lite
benchmark across all methods, while Table 2 shows the corresponding results on the SWE-bench
Multimodal benchmark. Tables 3 and 4 provide granular analyzes comparing RepoRepair with
Agentless Lite and GUIRepair across both datasets, specifically examining repair success rates
(%Resolved) and localization accuracy (%Correct Localization) across different repositories.
Performance Comparison with Baseline Tools. Tables 1 and 2 present comprehensive
comparisons of repair performance (%Resolved) on SWE-bench Lite and Multimodal benchmarks,
respectively. On SWE-bench Lite, RepoRepair achieves a competitive 45.67% resolution rate with
favorable cost efficiency ($0.44 per issue). While ExpeRepair with Claude-4 Sonnet attains the
5 https://huggingface.co/sentence-transformers/all-mpnet-base-v2

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:14

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Table 1. Performance Comparison of Baseline Tools on SWE-bench Lite.

Tool

LLM

%Resolved

Avg. $Cost

RAG
SWE-Agent
SWE-Agent
AutoCodeRover
Moatless Tools
Agentless
Agentless Lite
OpenHands
PatchPilot
DARS
ExpeRepair
ExpeRepair

Claude-3 Opus
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
Claude-4 Sonnet
GPT-4o
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
GPT-4o
O3 Mini
CodeAct v2.1
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
Claude-4 Sonnet
Deepseek-V3 &
Claude-4 Sonnet

4.33%
23.00%
56.67%
30.67%
38.33%
27.33%
32.33%
41.67%
45.33%
47.00%
48.33%
60.33%

1.62
0.65
0.17
0.34
0.21
2.14
0.97
12.24
2.07
-

45.67%

0.44

RepoRepair

Table 2. Performance Comparison of Baseline Tools on SWE-bench Multimodal.

Tool

LLM

RAG
GPT-4o
SWE-Agent
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
SWE-Agent JS
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
SWE-agent M
GPT-4o
Agentless
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
Agentless Lite
Claude-3.5 Sonnet
OpenHands-Versa Claude-4 Sonnet
GUIRepair
o4-mini
GUIRepair
o3
Deepseek-V3 &
RepoRepair
Claude-4 Sonnet

%Resolved

Avg. $Cost

6.00%
12.19%
11.99%
12.19%
6.19%
25.34%
34.43%
33.85%
35.98%

0.17
1.52
3.11
2.94
0.42
0.38
0.36
-

37.14%

0.56

highest performance (60.33%), our approach outperforms several prominent baselines such as
PatchPilot (45.67% vs. 45.33%), OpenHands (45.67% vs. 41.67%), and DARS (45.67% vs. 47.00%)
at significantly lower cost. More importantly, on the more challenging SWE-bench Multimodal
benchmark, RepoRepair establishes state-of-the-art performance with 37.14% resolution, surpassing
all existing tools including GUIRepair (35.98%), OpenHands-Versa (34.43%), and Agentless Lite
(25.34%). These results demonstrate that our RepoRepair achieves competitive performance while
maintaining cost efficiency across diverse benchmarks.
Unique Repair Capabilities. Complementing the aggregate performance metrics, Figure 5
provides a Venn diagram analysis that reveals RepoRepair’s distinctive ability to resolve bugs
that elude other top-performing tools. On SWE-bench Lite, RepoRepair uniquely fixes 4 bugs that
all four comparison tools (Agentless Lite, DARS, ExpeRepair, SWE-Agent) fail to resolve. This
unique capability is even more pronounced on SWE-bench Multimodal, where RepoRepair solves
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

(a) SWE-bench Lite

111:15

(b) SWE-bench Multimodal

Fig. 5. Unique bug resolutions of top-performing tools on (left) SWE-bench Lite and (right) SWE-bench
Multimodal.

21 bugs that GUIRepair, OpenHands-Versa, and Agentless Lite cannot fix. These uniquely resolved
cases often involve issues with minimal file mention in descriptions, requiring deep semantic
understanding of repository structure—a strength of RepoRepair. This analysis underscores that
beyond competitive overall performance, RepoRepair addresses a valuable subset of challenging
problems inaccessible to existing methods.
Furthermore, we conduct a comparative analysis of performance differences between RepoRepair,
Agentless Lite, and GUIRepair on SWE-bench Multimodal. As shown in Table 3, RepoRepair achieves
the highest overall performance (37.14%) compared to GUIRepair (35.98%) and Agentless Lite
(25.34%). Notably, the performance patterns vary significantly across different repository types.
RepoRepair achieves particularly strong results in text/code-focused repositories: ’bpmn-io/bpmnjs’ and ’eslint/eslint’. These repositories primarily involve code logic, API usage, and configuration
issues—domains where RepoRepair effectively bridges issue descriptions to relevant code elements.
In contrast, GUIRepair, which leverages visual information from screenshots for reproduction
and validation, shows relative advantages in repositories with significant visual components. In
’GoogleChrome/lighthouse’, its ability to process visual information provides tangible benefits for
issues involving web rendering and visualization. Similarly, in syntax-focused repositories like
’PrismJS/prism’ and ’prettier/prettier’, GUIRepair’s visual validation mechanism contributes to its
performance. Despite GUIRepair’s advantages in specific visual domains, RepoRepair’s superior
aggregate performance demonstrates that our documentation-enhanced approach is more broadly
effective across the diverse software projects in SWE-bench Multimodal, where code-logic issues
predominate over purely visual concerns.
Compared with baseline tools in Avg. $Cost. As shown in Table 1, RepoRepair achieves a
competitive repair rate of 45.67% on SWE-bench Lite at an average cost of $0.44 per fix, demonstrating significantly higher cost-efficiency than most agent-based approaches such as SWE-Agent ($1.62
with Claude-3.5 Sonnet) and ExpeRepair ($2.07 with Claude-3.5 Sonnet). On the more challenging
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:16

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Table 3. Repair Results (%Resolved) Comparison Between RepoRepair, Agentless Lite and GUIRepair Across
Repositories in SWE-bench Multimodal.

Repository

Agentless Lite

GUIRepair

RepoRepair

alibaba-fusion/next
bpmn-io/bpmn-js
carbon-design-system/carbon
eslint/eslint
GoogleChrome/lighthouse
grommet/grommet
highlightjs/highlight.js
openlayers/openlayers
prettier/prettier
PrismJS/prism
quarto-dev/quarto-cli
scratchfoundation/scratch-gui
Total

6/39
27/54
9/134
2/11
4/54
2/21
3/39
73/79
0/13
5/38
0/24
0/11
131/517 (25.34%)

10/39
37/54
24/134
6/11
8/54
5/21
3/39
76/79
4/13
8/38
5/24
0/11
186/517 (35.98%)

10/39
51/54
24/134
8/11
6/54
5/21
3/39
76/79
2/13
4/38
3/24
0/11
192/517 (37.14%)

SWE-bench Multimodal benchmark (Table 2), although RepoRepair’s cost is moderately higher than
GUIRepair’s most economical configuration ($0.36 for 33.85% with o4-mini), the $0.20 additional
cost is justified by the 3.28% performance gain, offering better value for practical deployment where
repair success is prioritized. Moreover, the cost efficiency of RepoRepair is further enhanced by
its documentation reuse strategy. Specifically, on SWE-bench Lite, only $0.12 is allocated to code
documentation generation using DeepSeek-V3, while on SWE-bench Multimodal, this component
increases to $0.20 due to the larger scale and complexity of JavaScript/TypeScript repositories, with
the remaining cost attributed to multimodal LLM inference using Claude-4 for localization and
repair tasks.
Compared with baseline tools in %Correct Localization. In practical software development,
accurately identifying modification locations provides significant debugging value beyond direct
bug fixing. Note that while multiple valid modification locations may exist for a given issue
(potentially differing from developer-chosen patches), comparison with developer patches remains
a meaningful approximation metric for evaluating localization effectiveness. Although RepoRepair,
Agentless Lite, and GUIRepair employ distinct localization workflows, all three approaches share the
fundamental component of file localization (with both Agentless Lite and RepoRepair additionally
incorporating similar file retrieval steps). This commonality enables a meaningful comparison of
their file localization accuracy (%Correct Localization), as quantitatively evaluated in Table 4 for
SWE-bench Lite and Table 5 for SWE-bench Multimodal across different repositories.
On SWE-bench Lite (Table 4), RepoRepair achieves comparable file retrieval accuracy (282/300,
94.0%) to Agentless Lite (289/300, 96.3%), while demonstrating superior file localization performance
(237/300, 79.0%) compared to Agentless Lite (224/300, 74.7%). This performance gap in file retrieval
may stem from our documentation-enhanced retrieval approach: RepoRepair directly matches
issue descriptions with generated code documentation, while issue descriptions often contain code
snippets and variable names that may not align perfectly with the natural language abstractions in
code documentation, creating a semantic gap that affects retrieval accuracy. In contrast, Agentless
Lite retrieves files based directly on code content, which may more accurately capture files relevant
to the code-specific features mentioned in issue descriptions. Despite this minor disadvantage in the
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:17

Table 4. File Localization Results (%Correct Localization) Comparison Between RepoRepair and Agentless
Lite Across Repositories in SWE-bench Lite. (AL = Agentless Lite; RR = RepoRepair)

File Retrieval
AL
RR

Repository
astropy/astropy
django/django
matplotlib/matplotlib
mwaskom/seaborn
pallets/flask
psf/requests
pydata/xarray
pylint-dev/pylint
pytest-dev/pytest
scikit-learn/scikit-learn
sphinx-doc/sphinx
sympy/sympy
Total

6/6
109/114
21/23
4/4
3/3
6/6
5/5
6/6
17/17
23/23
16/16
73/77
289/300 (96.33%)

6/6
110/114
22/23
4/4
3/3
6/6
5/5
4/6
15/17
22/23
16/16
69/77
282/300 (94%)

File Localization
AL
RR
5/6
97/114
10/23
2/4
3/3
5/6
4/5
6/6
16/17
15/23
12/16
49/77
224/300 (74.67%)

6/6
100/114
16/23
3/4
3/3
6/6
5/5
3/6
1/17
17/23
12/16
65/77
237/300 (79%)

Table 5. File Localization Results (%Correct Localization) Comparison Between RepoRepair, Agentless Lite,
and GUIRepair Across Repositories in SWE-bench Multimodal. (File R = File Retrieval; File L = File Localization;
AL = Agentless Lite; GR = GUIRepair; RR = RepoRepair)

Repository
alibaba-fusion/next
bpmn-io/bpmn-js
carbon-design-system/carbon
eslint/eslint
GoogleChrome/lighthouse
grommet/grommet
highlightjs/highlight.js
openlayers/openlayers
prettier/prettier
PrismJS/prism
quarto-dev/quarto-cli
scratchfoundation/scratch-gui
Total

File R
AL

RR

23/39
21/39
49/54
51/54
119/134 116/134
9/11
10/11
37/54
39/54
16/21
15/21
39/39
37/39
57/79
59/79
10/13
11/13
37/38
24/38
11/24
12/24
1/11
6/11
401/517 401/517
(77.56%) (77.56%)

AL

File L
GR

RR

14/39
15/54
32/134
5/11
21/54
6/21
29/39
24/79
3/13
8/38
0/24
0/11
157/517
(30.37%)

13/39
22/54
67/134
6/11
14/54
8/21
31/39
25/79
4/13
24/38
15/24
0/11
229/517
(44.29%)

17/39
31/54
97/134
10/11
27/54
14/21
33/39
45/79
8/13
16/38
9/24
2/11
309/517
(59.77%)

file retrieval stage, RepoRepair maintains superior performance in the subsequent file localization,
indicating that RepoRepair provides stronger capability in correctly identifying suspicious files
requiring modifications, thereby achieving overall improved localization performance.
On the more challenging SWE-bench Multimodal benchmark (Table 5), RepoRepair demonstrates
significant advantages in both file retrieval and localization. In file retrieval, RepoRepair achieves
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:18

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Table 6. Function-Level Localization Analysis of RepoRepair on two benchmarks.

Metric

SWE-bench Lite

SWE-bench Multimodal

Successful file localizations
Successful function localizations

237
205 (86.5%)

309
273 (88.35%)

Function localization in 1 round
Function localization requiring >1 round
Average function localization rounds

222 (93.67%)
15 (6.33%)
1.06

302 (97.73%)
7 (2.27%)
1.02

equal accuracy (401/517, 77.6%) to Agentless Lite (401/517, 77.6%), while substantially outperforming both baseline tools in file localization accuracy (309/517, 59.8%) compared to Agentless Lite
(157/517, 30.4%) and GUIRepair (229/517, 44.3%). For instance, in the ’carbon-design-system/carbon’
repository, RepoRepair correctly localizes buggy files for 65 more issues than Agentless Lite and
30 more issues than GUIRepair. While this comparison might initially appear unfair due to differing methodologies (RepoRepair’s Top-5 file localization vs. Agentless Lite’s Top-1 approach),
our evaluation framework actually favors Agentless Lite by employing a more lenient success
criterion, requiring only that its single predicted file appears in the developer’s patch set. In contrast,
RepoRepair must correctly identify all files modified in the developer’s patch to be counted as
correct. This strict evaluation protocol confirms that the observed performance difference is both
statistically significant and methodologically fair.
While Agentless Lite omits function-level localization, RepoRepair’s hierarchical structure provides critical refinement by enabling LLMs to validate potentially relevant files further. Specifically,
if no functions/classes are identified as relevant during this step, the file is excluded from repair,
even if it was initially selected in file localization. This process essentially performs rigorous
verification of the file-level results, preventing unnecessary repairs. Our evaluation applies strict
criteria: any file where the function localization misses relevant functions/classes is considered
a localization failure, regardless of subsequent repair outcomes. As shown in Table 6, although
function localization in RepoRepair excluded valid repair targets in 32 cases on SWE-bench Lite
(from 237 to 205) and 36 cases on SWE-bench Multimodal (from 309 to 273), it achieved precision
of 86.5% (205/237) and 88.4% (273/309) respectively, confirming its effectiveness as a precision
improvement step in both benchmarks. Furthermore, function localization operates with high
efficiency, completing 93.7% of cases in a single round on SWE-bench Lite and 97.7% on SWE-bench
Multimodal, with average localization rounds of only 1.06 and 1.02, respectively.
5.2

Ablation Study

We conduct systematic ablation studies to evaluate the individual contributions of RepoRepair’s
key components and to validate its design rationale. (1) We assess the "file retrieval" component by
disabling it during localization while retaining documentation-based file and function localization.
(2) We evaluate the "code documentation" component by excluding it during localization (while
keeping file retrieval), adopting Agentless’s path-based approach instead. Notably, for SWE-bench
Multimodal (JavaScript/TypeScript repositories with abundant anonymous functions), omitting
documentation inherently excludes these critical elements; we skip function localization entirely
and proceed directly to repair, whereas for SWE-bench Lite (Python repositories with minimal
anonymous functions), we maintain the full hierarchical localization workflow. (3) We analyze the
"code pruning" component by removing the context truncation step while preserving full code
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:19

Table 7. Computational Cost (Tokens) of RepoRepair Variants in Localization and Repair on two benchmarks.
(File R = File Retrieval; File L = File Localization; Func L = Function Localization; CP = Code Pruning)

File R
File L
Func L
Repair
Total

Full

SWE-bench Lite
w/o FR w/o Doc

w/o CP

Full

0
2.9M
6.3M
2.2M
11.4M

44.6M
13.5M
5.4M
63.5M

0
2.9M
6.3M
3.8M
13.0M

1.4M
23.5M
6.2M
8.1M
39.2M

0
0.6M
0.3M
1.9M
2.8M

SWE-bench Multimodal
w/o FR w/o Doc w/o CP
132.6M
16.5M
21.6M
170.7M

1.4M
2.9M
9.0M
13.4M

1.4M
23.5M
6.2M
12.5M
43.6M

Table 8. Performance of RepoRepair Variants in Localization (%Correct Localization) and Repair (%Resolved)
on two benchmarks. (File R = File Retrieval; File L = File Localization; Func L = Function Localization; CP =
Code Pruning)

Full
File R
File L
Func L
Repair

282/300
237/300
205/300
137/300

SWE-bench Lite
w/o FR w/o Doc

w/o CP

Full

229/300
190/300
124/300

282/300
237/300
205/300
128/300

401/517
309/517
273/517
192/517

282/300
225/300
159/300
111/300

SWE-bench Multimodal
w/o FR w/o Doc w/o CP
282/517
249/517
183/517

401/517
180/517
136/517

401/517
309/517
273/517
174/517

contexts. (4) To specifically address documentation quality concerns, we conduct a focused study
on ’django/django’ (114 bugs) from SWE-bench Lite, regenerating both file-level and function-level
documentation using Qwen2.5-7B (a weaker model compared to DeepSeek-V3) and executing the
complete localization-repair pipeline. Additionally, we perform human evaluation by randomly
sampling 100 files with their corresponding code documentation to assess quality.
Effect of File Retrieval. As shown in Table 7, disabling file retrieval significantly increases
computational costs across both benchmarks: on SWE-bench Lite, file localization token usage
surges from 2.9M to 44.6M (a 15.4× increase), with total costs rising from 11.4M to 63.5M; on
SWE-bench Multimodal, file localization increases from 23.5M to 132.6M, and total costs grow from
39.2M to 170.7M. This exponential cost escalation is expected, as repositories typically contain
hundreds to thousands of files, and without preliminary filtering, the localization phase must
process documentation for all files simultaneously. Table 8 further reveals that despite processing
more information, the variant without file retrieval exhibits degraded performance: on SWE-bench
Lite, file localization accuracy decreases from 237/300 to 229/300, and repair rate drops from
137/300 to 124/300; on SWE-bench Multimodal, file localization drops from 309/517 to 282/517, and
repair decreases from 192/517 to 183/517. These results demonstrate that excessive context length
degrades LLM reasoning capability, while file retrieval provides essential noise reduction, improving
localization accuracy while reducing token costs by 82.1% on Lite and 82.3% on Multimodal—a
crucial advantage for practical deployment.
Effect of Code Documentation. As shown in Table 7, removing code documentation substantially reduces token usage during localization phases: on SWE-bench Lite, file localization
costs decrease from 2.9M to 0.6M (a 79.3% reduction), and total costs drop from 11.4M to 2.8M; on
SWE-bench Multimodal, file localization decreases from 23.5M to 2.9M (an 87.7% reduction), with
total costs falling from 39.2M to 13.4M. However, Table 8 reveals a critical performance trade-off:
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:20

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Table 9. Impact of Documentation Quality on RepoRepair’s Performance (django/django). (File R = File
Retrieval; File L = File Localization; Func L = Function Localization)
Doc Generator

File R

File L

Func L

Repair

DeepSeek-V3
Qwen2.5-7B

110/114 (96.5%)
98/114 (86.0%)

100/114 (87.7%)
82/114 (71.9%)

93/114 (81.6%)
68/114 (59.6%)

67/114 (58.8%)
39/114 (34.2%)

Table 10. Human Comparative Evaluation of Generated Documentation Quality (django/django).
Document Granularity

Sample Pairs

Prefer DeepSeek-V3

Prefer Qwen2.5-7B

File-level
Function-level

100
627

96 (96%)
615 (98.1%)

4 (4%)
12 (1.9%)

without code documentation, localization accuracy suffers dramatically—on SWE-bench Lite, file
localization drops from 237/300 to 225/300, and repair rate declines from 137/300 to 111/300; the
impact is even more severe on SWE-bench Multimodal, where file localization plunges from 309/517
to 180/517, and repair falls from 192/517 to 136/517. This sharp decline indicates that while code
documentation increases computational costs, it provides LLMs with essential semantic understanding that transcends surface-level code analysis. The documentation’s structured representation of
functionality, dependencies, and relationships enables more accurate identification of relevant code
elements, which is particularly crucial for JavaScript/TypeScript repositories with complex anonymous functions and callbacks. The performance-cost analysis confirms that code documentation is
indispensable for achieving practical repair effectiveness.
Effect of Code Pruning. Table 7 shows that disabling code pruning moderately increases
computational costs, particularly in the repair phase: on SWE-bench Lite, repair token usage rises
from 2.2M to 3.8M (a 72.7% increase), and total costs increase from 11.4M to 13.0M; on SWE-bench
Multimodal, repair costs grow from 8.1M to 12.5M (a 54.3% increase), with total costs rising from
39.2M to 43.6M. This increase stems from providing LLMs with complete, unpruned code contexts
during patch generation. Table 8 reveals an important performance pattern: on SWE-bench Lite,
code pruning ablation maintains identical file and function localization accuracy (237/300 and
205/300 respectively) but reduces repair rate from 137/300 to 128/300; on SWE-bench Multimodal, it
similarly preserves localization accuracy (309/517 and 273/517) but lowers repair rate from 192/517
to 174/517. These results indicate that while full code contexts provide comprehensive information,
they also introduce substantial noise that can distract LLMs from focusing on the core bug-fixing
logic. The code pruning component effectively filters irrelevant details, enabling more precise
patch generation without sacrificing localization accuracy. This demonstrates that strategic context
reduction—rather than maximal context provision—optimizes the repair process, particularly for
complex bugs requiring focused attention on specific code segments.
Effect of Documentation Quality. To investigate how documentation generation capabilities
affect RepoRepair’s performance, we conduct a focused ablation study using two different LLMs for
documentation generation: DeepSeek-V3 and Qwen2.5-7B. As shown in Table 9, using Qwen2.57B for documentation generation results in noticeable performance degradation throughout the
localization pipeline on django/django: file retrieval accuracy decreases from 96.5% to 86.0%, file
localization drops from 87.7% to 71.9%, and function localization declines from 81.6% to 59.6%. This
cascading degradation in localization performance directly leads to the substantial reduction in
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:21

repair rate from 58.8% to 34.2%, demonstrating that documentation quality critically determines the
success of the localization process, which in turn governs the upper bound of repair effectiveness.
To understand the underlying causes of this localization performance gap, we conduct a human
comparative evaluation in which two authors with extensive Python development experience (both
with over 4 years of research experience) assess documentation quality blindly. For each of 100
randomly sampled files and their corresponding 627 functions/classes, the evaluators independently
compare anonymized documentation pairs from both models, selecting which version better
describes the code’s functionality based on three criteria: (1) accuracy of functional description,
(2) completeness of key elements covered, and (3) clarity of expression. The evaluation followed
a rigorous two-phase protocol. In the first phase, both evaluators independently assessed all
samples. Their initial judgments agreed on 92% of file-level pairs and 96.2% of function-level
pairs. For the remaining cases with disagreement, we implemented a resolution protocol: (a) first,
the evaluators jointly reviewed the conflicting cases, discussing their rationale; (b) if consensus
remained elusive, they consulted the source code more deeply; (c) as a final arbiter for 8 persistently
disputed cases, they used GPT-4o to provide an independent analysis (while maintaining blindness
to documentation origin), then reconciled their judgments based on this additional perspective. This
multi-step resolution process ensured that all final judgments in Table 10 represent well-considered
consensus.
As Table 10 shows, DeepSeek-V3-generated documentation is overwhelmingly preferred: 96%
at the file-level and 98.1% at the function-level, compared to only 4% and 1.9% for Qwen2.5-7B,
respectively. The near-universal preference for DeepSeek-V3 documentation indicates that the
documentation generated by Qwen2.5-7B likely contains inaccuracies, omissions, or less precise
semantic representations that directly impair the LLM’s ability to accurately identify relevant code
elements during localization. Since repair in RepoRepair operates strictly on the localized code
segments, any deficiencies in documentation that hinder correct localization inevitably prevent
successful repair. This finding underscores that high-quality documentation is essential for accurate
localization—the foundational stage of our approach—and validates our design choice of leveraging
advanced LLMs to generate precise semantic representations of repository code.
5.3

Case Study

To gain deeper insights into the effectiveness of RepoRepair’s documentation-enhanced approach,
we examine a representative case study from SWE-bench Multimodal. Figure 6 presents the case
’carbon-design-system/carbon-3610’, where the issue description reports a missing light prop propagation from React listbox components. Surface-level keyword matching (e.g., "listbox") would
suggest modifying "ListBox.js"—as incorrectly done by baseline methods relying on code-based
localization. In contrast, RepoRepair’s hierarchical localization process, powered by code documentation, correctly identified the root cause in a different file: improper property passing in the
higher-level component "Dropdown.js". The process involved: (1) initially selecting five suspicious
files using file-level documentation, then (2) refining this to three files via function-level analysis,
ultimately generating a correct patch that matches the developer’s fix.
This case exemplifies RepoRepair’s core strength: the ability to localize rarely mentioned but
critical files by establishing semantic connections between issue descriptions and implementation
code through comprehensive documentation. Without such structured documentation, LLMs
struggle to move beyond surface keywords to understand the actual code relationships, leading to
both localization and repair failures. The baseline’s incorrect patch in "ListBox.js" (merely adding a
CSS class) highlights the limitations of keyword-driven approaches and underscores the value of
RepoRepair’s documentation-aware reasoning for complex, repository-wide issues.
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:22

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

Fig. 6. Case Comparison: Patches Generated by RepoRepair and Agentless Lite for Issue carbon-designsystem/carbon-3610.

6

THREATS TO VALIDITY

Internal Validity. A primary internal validity threat concerns potential data leakage. Although
Claude-4 was released after the construction of SWE-bench Lite, it demonstrates robust generalization on the more recent SWE-bench Multimodal benchmark, mitigating temporal data
contamination concerns. To rigorously examine leakage risks, we perform the following checks: (1)
removing all ground-truth contextual information from model inputs, and (2) verifying that the
model never outputs correct files, functions, or code snippets without appropriate retrieved context.
Our analysis reveals minor leakage in SWE-bench Lite, limited to 4 instances in file localization
where the model identified correct file paths despite retrieval failures—possibly due to exposure
to similar public repositories during pre-training. No such leakage was detected in SWE-bench
Multimodal. Overall, we conclude that benchmark contamination is well-controlled and does not
substantially affect the validity of our results.
Another threat stems from model selection. We use Claude-4 consistently across comparisons,
as it is widely adopted by competitive baselines (e.g., SWE-Agent, ExpeRepair) on these benchmarks. Our ablation studies confirm that RepoRepair’s performance gains stem primarily from its
documentation mechanism rather than the underlying model choice.
External Validity. The main external threats relate to language coverage and repository scale.
Our evaluation spans two major language ecosystems (Python, JavaScript/TypeScript) across SWEbench Lite and SWE-bench Multimodal, yet performance in other popular languages (e.g., Java,
C#) remains unvalidated. Additionally, while the benchmarks represent real-world projects, they
may not capture the scale or unique patterns of some industrial codebases where computational
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:23

limits could emerge. Nonetheless, our multi-benchmark results across distinct language domains
demonstrate promising generalizability for RepoRepair.
7

LIMITATIONS

RepoRepair’s design exhibits several limitations that constrain its broader applicability in repositorylevel program repair:
A fundamental limitation stems from its code documentation generation mechanism: since it
exclusively processes functions/classes in code files, files containing no functional components
(e.g., configuration files, static asset bundles) cannot generate documentation. When such files
are critical for issue resolution, RepoRepair is likely to fail. Our analysis identifies 26 such cases
(4.2%) in SWE-bench Multimodal, primarily involving configuration files (e.g., prism-sql.js), static
style files (e.g., style.css), and entry files (e.g., index.js). Consequently, RepoRepair exhibits significantly reduced effectiveness for non-functional changes (e.g., parameter tuning, style changes)
compared to functional bug fixes. In practical deployment, this limitation can be addressed through
complementary techniques. For instance, configuration files could be processed using specialized
parsers to extract structured information, and maintaining a repository-wide function call graph
would enable more targeted documentation updates when related files change, avoiding complete
repository re-documentation.
Furthermore, the workflow implemented by RepoRepair is predicated on the assumption that
defects are confined to modifications within pre-existing files. As a result, the tool is unable to
accommodate feature requests that necessitate the creation of entirely new files—a limitation that
impacts 13 cases (2.1%) in SWE-bench Multimodal. This constraint is not unique to RepoRepair but
reflects a fundamental challenge shared across agent-free APR tools: the inability to distinguish
between issue types (modification vs. creation) and adapt localization and repair workflows accordingly. Future extensions could incorporate a file creation phase when no existing files are deemed
relevant, prompting the LLM to generate appropriate new file structures based on repository
patterns.
Additionally, our incremental documentation generation strategy reuses documentation for
unchanged files between commits to improve efficiency. However, this approach may fail to
capture how an unchanged file’s role or dependencies evolve as surrounding code changes—a
subtle contextual shift that could affect localization accuracy. Maintaining lightweight dependency
tracking would enable more precise documentation updates, regenerating documentation not only
for changed files but also for files whose architectural relationships have evolved.
8

CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORKS

We propose RepoRepair, a novel approach for automatically repairing repository-level issues by
leveraging code documentation. Following the agent-free methodology, RepoRepair performs
repairs through three key stages: hierarchical documentation generation, multimodal fault localization, and context-aware patch generation. Comprehensive evaluation on both SWE-bench
Lite and the latest SWE-bench Multimodal benchmark demonstrates that our approach achieves
state-of-the-art performance, with repair rates of 45.7% and 37.1% respectively, while maintaining
high cost-efficiency at $0.44 and $0.56 per fix. Ablation studies and detailed analysis confirm that
code documentation significantly enhances both localization accuracy and repair effectiveness,
particularly for complex, cross-file issues requiring deep repository understanding.
As to future works, we plan to extend RepoRepair along two directions to mitigate existing
limitations: (1) enhancing documentation coverage to diverse file types beyond functions/classes,
including configuration files and static assets, and (2) supporting additive changes through extended
workflows or controlled agent-based methods for handling feature requests requiring file creation.
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:24

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

These improvements aim to broaden RepoRepair’s applicability and robustness across diverse
real-world development scenarios while maintaining its core advantages in comprehension and
cost-effectiveness.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (62572235), CCFHuawei Populus Grove Fund, and Cooperation Fund of Huawei-NJU Creative Laboratory for Novel
Software Technology.
REFERENCES
[1] Vaibhav Aggarwal, Ojasv Kamal, Abhinav Japesh, Zhijing Jin, and Bernhard Schölkopf. 2025. DARS: Dynamic
Action Re-Sampling to Enhance Coding Agent Performance by Adaptive Tree Traversal. CoRR abs/2503.14269 (2025).
https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2503.14269 arXiv:2503.14269
[2] Miltiadis Allamanis, Hao Peng, and Charles Sutton. 2016. A Convolutional Attention Network for Extreme Summarization of Source Code. In Proceedings of the 33nd International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2016, New
York City, NY, USA, June 19-24, 2016 (JMLR Workshop and Conference Proceedings, Vol. 48), Maria-Florina Balcan and
Kilian Q. Weinberger (Eds.). JMLR.org, 2091–2100. http://proceedings.mlr.press/v48/allamanis16.html
[3] Antonis Antoniades, Albert Örwall, Kexun Zhang, Yuxi Xie, Anirudh Goyal, and William Yang Wang. 2025. SWESearch: Enhancing Software Agents with Monte Carlo Tree Search and Iterative Refinement. In The Thirteenth
International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2025, Singapore, April 24-28, 2025. OpenReview.net. https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=G7sIFXugTX
[4] Islem Bouzenia, Premkumar T. Devanbu, and Michael Pradel. 2024. RepairAgent: An Autonomous, LLM-Based Agent
for Program Repair. CoRR abs/2403.17134 (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2403.17134 arXiv:2403.17134
[5] Dong Chen, Shaoxin Lin, Muhan Zeng, Daoguang Zan, Jian-Gang Wang, Anton Cheshkov, Jun Sun, Hao Yu, Guoliang
Dong, Artem Aliev, Jie Wang, Xiao Cheng, Guangtai Liang, Yuchi Ma, Pan Bian, Tao Xie, and Qianxiang Wang. 2024.
CodeR: Issue Resolving with Multi-Agent and Task Graphs. CoRR abs/2406.01304 (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/
ARXIV.2406.01304 arXiv:2406.01304
[6] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Pondé de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Kaplan, Harri Edwards,
Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, Alex Ray, Raul Puri, Gretchen Krueger, Michael Petrov, Heidy Khlaaf,
Girish Sastry, Pamela Mishkin, Brooke Chan, Scott Gray, Nick Ryder, Mikhail Pavlov, Alethea Power, Lukasz Kaiser,
Mohammad Bavarian, Clemens Winter, Philippe Tillet, Felipe Petroski Such, Dave Cummings, Matthias Plappert, Fotios
Chantzis, Elizabeth Barnes, Ariel Herbert-Voss, William Hebgen Guss, Alex Nichol, Alex Paino, Nikolas Tezak, Jie Tang,
Igor Babuschkin, Suchir Balaji, Shantanu Jain, William Saunders, Christopher Hesse, Andrew N. Carr, Jan Leike, Joshua
Achiam, Vedant Misra, Evan Morikawa, Alec Radford, Matthew Knight, Miles Brundage, Mira Murati, Katie Mayer, Peter
Welinder, Bob McGrew, Dario Amodei, Sam McCandlish, Ilya Sutskever, and Wojciech Zaremba. 2021. Evaluating Large
Language Models Trained on Code. CoRR abs/2107.03374 (2021). arXiv:2107.03374 https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.03374
[7] Yuxiao Chen, Jingzheng Wu, Xiang Ling, Changjiang Li, Zhiqing Rui, Tianyue Luo, and Yanjun Wu. 2024. When Large
Language Models Confront Repository-Level Automatic Program Repair: How Well They Done?. In Proceedings of the
2024 IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software Engineering: Companion Proceedings, ICSE Companion 2024,
Lisbon, Portugal, April 14-20, 2024. ACM, 459–471. https://doi.org/10.1145/3639478.3647633
[8] Sergio Cozzetti B. de Souza, Nicolas Anquetil, and Káthia Marçal de Oliveira. 2005. A study of the documentation
essential to software maintenance. In Proceedings of the 23rd Annual International Conference on Design of Communication: documenting & Designing for Pervasive Information, SIGDOC 2005, Coventry, UK, September 21-23, 2005, Scott R.
Tilley and Robert M. Newman (Eds.). ACM, 68–75. https://doi.org/10.1145/1085313.1085331
[9] DeepSeek-AI, Aixin Liu, Bei Feng, Bing Xue, Bingxuan Wang, Bochao Wu, Chengda Lu, Chenggang Zhao, Chengqi
Deng, Chenyu Zhang, Chong Ruan, Damai Dai, Daya Guo, Dejian Yang, Deli Chen, Dongjie Ji, Erhang Li, Fangyun Lin,
Fucong Dai, Fuli Luo, Guangbo Hao, Guanting Chen, Guowei Li, H. Zhang, Han Bao, Hanwei Xu, Haocheng Wang,
Haowei Zhang, Honghui Ding, Huajian Xin, Huazuo Gao, Hui Li, Hui Qu, J. L. Cai, Jian Liang, Jianzhong Guo, Jiaqi Ni,
Jiashi Li, Jiawei Wang, Jin Chen, Jingchang Chen, Jingyang Yuan, Junjie Qiu, Junlong Li, Junxiao Song, Kai Dong, Kai
Hu, Kaige Gao, Kang Guan, Kexin Huang, Kuai Yu, Lean Wang, Lecong Zhang, Lei Xu, Leyi Xia, Liang Zhao, Litong
Wang, Liyue Zhang, Meng Li, Miaojun Wang, Mingchuan Zhang, Minghua Zhang, Minghui Tang, Mingming Li, Ning
Tian, Panpan Huang, Peiyi Wang, Peng Zhang, Qiancheng Wang, Qihao Zhu, Qinyu Chen, Qiushi Du, R. J. Chen, R. L.
Jin, Ruiqi Ge, Ruisong Zhang, Ruizhe Pan, Runji Wang, Runxin Xu, Ruoyu Zhang, Ruyi Chen, S. S. Li, Shanghao Lu,
Shangyan Zhou, Shanhuang Chen, Shaoqing Wu, Shengfeng Ye, Shengfeng Ye, Shirong Ma, Shiyu Wang, Shuang
Zhou, Shuiping Yu, Shunfeng Zhou, Shuting Pan, T. Wang, Tao Yun, Tian Pei, Tianyu Sun, W. L. Xiao, and Wangding
ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:25

Zeng. 2024. DeepSeek-V3 Technical Report. CoRR abs/2412.19437 (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2412.19437
arXiv:2412.19437
[10] Zhangyin Feng, Daya Guo, Duyu Tang, Nan Duan, Xiaocheng Feng, Ming Gong, Linjun Shou, Bing Qin, Ting Liu,
Daxin Jiang, and Ming Zhou. 2020. CodeBERT: A Pre-Trained Model for Programming and Natural Languages. In
Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, Online Event, 16-20 November 2020 (Findings
of ACL, Vol. EMNLP 2020), Trevor Cohn, Yulan He, and Yang Liu (Eds.). Association for Computational Linguistics,
1536–1547. https://doi.org/10.18653/V1/2020.FINDINGS-EMNLP.139
[11] Kai Huang, Jian Zhang, Xiaofei Xie, and Chunyang Chen. 2025. Seeing is Fixing: Cross-Modal Reasoning with
Multimodal LLMs for Visual Software Issue Fixing. CoRR abs/2506.16136 (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2506.
16136 arXiv:2506.16136
[12] Srinivasan Iyer, Ioannis Konstas, Alvin Cheung, and Luke Zettlemoyer. 2016. Summarizing Source Code using a
Neural Attention Model. In Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
ACL 2016, August 7-12, 2016, Berlin, Germany, Volume 1: Long Papers. The Association for Computer Linguistics.
https://doi.org/10.18653/V1/P16-1195
[13] Carlos E. Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik R. Narasimhan. 2024.
SWE-bench: Can Language Models Resolve Real-world Github Issues?. In The Twelfth International Conference on
Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, Vienna, Austria, May 7-11, 2024. OpenReview.net. https://openreview.net/forum?
id=VTF8yNQM66
[14] Jeff Johnson, Matthijs Douze, and Hervé Jégou. 2021. Billion-Scale Similarity Search with GPUs. IEEE Trans. Big Data
7, 3 (2021), 535–547. https://doi.org/10.1109/TBDATA.2019.2921572
[15] René Just, Darioush Jalali, and Michael D. Ernst. 2014. Defects4J: a database of existing faults to enable controlled
testing studies for Java programs. In International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis, ISSTA ’14, San Jose,
CA, USA - July 21 - 26, 2014, Corina S. Pasareanu and Darko Marinov (Eds.). ACM, 437–440. https://doi.org/10.1145/
2610384.2628055
[16] Junaed Younus Khan and Gias Uddin. 2022. Automatic Code Documentation Generation Using GPT-3. In 37th IEEE/ACM
International Conference on Automated Software Engineering, ASE 2022, Rochester, MI, USA, October 10-14, 2022. ACM,
174:1–174:6. https://doi.org/10.1145/3551349.3559548
[17] Hongwei Li, Yuheng Tang, Shiqi Wang, and Wenbo Guo. 2025. PatchPilot: A Stable and Cost-Efficient Agentic Patching
Framework. CoRR abs/2502.02747 (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2502.02747 arXiv:2502.02747
[18] Yujia Li, David H. Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom Eccles, James
Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, Thomas Hubert, Peter Choy, Cyprien de Masson d’Autume, Igor Babuschkin,
Xinyun Chen, Po-Sen Huang, Johannes Welbl, Sven Gowal, Alexey Cherepanov, James Molloy, Daniel J. Mankowitz,
Esme Sutherland Robson, Pushmeet Kohli, Nando de Freitas, Koray Kavukcuoglu, and Oriol Vinyals. 2022. CompetitionLevel Code Generation with AlphaCode. CoRR abs/2203.07814 (2022). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2203.07814
arXiv:2203.07814
[19] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Qingyang Wu, and Yong Jae Lee. 2023. Visual Instruction Tuning. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 36: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2023, NeurIPS 2023, New
Orleans, LA, USA, December 10 - 16, 2023, Alice Oh, Tristan Naumann, Amir Globerson, Kate Saenko, Moritz Hardt, and
Sergey Levine (Eds.). http://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2023/hash/6dcf277ea32ce3288914faf369fe6de0-AbstractConference.html
[20] Qinyu Luo, Yining Ye, Shihao Liang, Zhong Zhang, Yujia Qin, Yaxi Lu, Yesai Wu, Xin Cong, Yankai Lin, Yingli Zhang,
Xiaoyin Che, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun. 2024. RepoAgent: An LLM-Powered Open-Source Framework for
Repository-level Code Documentation Generation. CoRR abs/2402.16667 (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2402.
16667 arXiv:2402.16667
[21] Fangwen Mu, Junjie Wang, Lin Shi, Song Wang, Shoubin Li, and Qing Wang. 2025. EXPEREPAIR: Dual-Memory
Enhanced LLM-based Repository-Level Program Repair. CoRR abs/2506.10484 (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.
2506.10484 arXiv:2506.10484
[22] OpenAI. 2023. GPT-4 Technical Report. CoRR abs/2303.08774 (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2303.08774
arXiv:2303.08774
[23] Rangeet Pan, Ali Reza Ibrahimzada, Rahul Krishna, Divya Sankar, Lambert Pouguem Wassi, Michele Merler, Boris
Sobolev, Raju Pavuluri, Saurabh Sinha, and Reyhaneh Jabbarvand. 2024. Lost in Translation: A Study of Bugs Introduced
by Large Language Models while Translating Code. In Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM International Conference on
Software Engineering, ICSE 2024, Lisbon, Portugal, April 14-20, 2024. ACM, 82:1–82:13. https://doi.org/10.1145/3597503.
3639226
[24] Noah Patton, Kia Rahmani, Meghana Missula, Joydeep Biswas, and Isil Dillig. 2024. Programming-by-Demonstration
for Long-Horizon Robot Tasks. Proc. ACM Program. Lang. 8, POPL (2024), 512–545. https://doi.org/10.1145/3632860

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

111:26

Zhongqiang Pan, Chuanyi Li, Wenkang Zhong, Yi Feng, Bin Luo, and Vincent Ng

[25] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learning Transferable Visual Models
From Natural Language Supervision. In Proceedings of the 38th International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML
2021, 18-24 July 2021, Virtual Event (Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, Vol. 139), Marina Meila and Tong Zhang
(Eds.). PMLR, 8748–8763. http://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/radford21a.html
[26] Baptiste Rozière, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Lowik Chanussot, and Guillaume Lample. 2020. Unsupervised Translation
of Programming Languages. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33: Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems 2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12, 2020, virtual, Hugo Larochelle, Marc’Aurelio Ranzato,
Raia Hadsell, Maria-Florina Balcan, and Hsuan-Tien Lin (Eds.). https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/hash/
ed23fbf18c2cd35f8c7f8de44f85c08d-Abstract.html
[27] Baptiste Rozière, Jie Zhang, François Charton, Mark Harman, Gabriel Synnaeve, and Guillaume Lample. 2022. Leveraging Automated Unit Tests for Unsupervised Code Translation. In The Tenth International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2022, Virtual Event, April 25-29, 2022. OpenReview.net. https://openreview.net/forum?id=cmt-6KtR4c4
[28] Haifeng Ruan, Yuntong Zhang, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2025. SpecRover: Code Intent Extraction via LLMs. In 47th
IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE 2025, Ottawa, ON, Canada, April 26 - May 6, 2025.
IEEE, 963–974. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSE55347.2025.00080
[29] André Silva, Sen Fang, and Martin Monperrus. 2023. RepairLLaMA: Efficient Representations and Fine-Tuned Adapters
for Program Repair. CoRR abs/2312.15698 (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2312.15698 arXiv:2312.15698
[30] David Silver, Aja Huang, Chris J. Maddison, Arthur Guez, Laurent Sifre, George van den Driessche, Julian Schrittwieser,
Ioannis Antonoglou, Vedavyas Panneershelvam, Marc Lanctot, Sander Dieleman, Dominik Grewe, John Nham, Nal
Kalchbrenner, Ilya Sutskever, Timothy P. Lillicrap, Madeleine Leach, Koray Kavukcuoglu, Thore Graepel, and Demis
Hassabis. 2016. Mastering the game of Go with deep neural networks and tree search. Nat. 529, 7587 (2016), 484–489.
https://doi.org/10.1038/NATURE16961
[31] Aditya Bharat Soni, Boxuan Li, Xingyao Wang, Valerie Chen, and Graham Neubig. 2025. Coding Agents with Multimodal
Browsing are Generalist Problem Solvers. CoRR abs/2506.03011 (2025). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2506.03011
arXiv:2506.03011
[32] Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, and
Illia Polosukhin. 2017. Attention is All you Need. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 30: Annual
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2017, December 4-9, 2017, Long Beach, CA, USA, Isabelle Guyon,
Ulrike von Luxburg, Samy Bengio, Hanna M. Wallach, Rob Fergus, S. V. N. Vishwanathan, and Roman Garnett (Eds.).
5998–6008. https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.html
[33] Xingyao Wang, Boxuan Li, Yufan Song, Frank F. Xu, Xiangru Tang, Mingchen Zhuge, Jiayi Pan, Yueqi Song, Bowen Li,
Jaskirat Singh, Hoang H. Tran, Fuqiang Li, Ren Ma, Mingzhang Zheng, Bill Qian, Yanjun Shao, Niklas Muennighoff,
Yizhe Zhang, Binyuan Hui, Junyang Lin, and et al. 2025. OpenHands: An Open Platform for AI Software Developers
as Generalist Agents. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2025, Singapore,
April 24-28, 2025. OpenReview.net. https://openreview.net/forum?id=OJd3ayDDoF
[34] Yue Wang, Weishi Wang, Shafiq R. Joty, and Steven C. H. Hoi. 2021. CodeT5: Identifier-aware Unified Pre-trained
Encoder-Decoder Models for Code Understanding and Generation. In Proceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2021, Virtual Event / Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 7-11
November, 2021, Marie-Francine Moens, Xuanjing Huang, Lucia Specia, and Scott Wen-tau Yih (Eds.). Association for
Computational Linguistics, 8696–8708. https://doi.org/10.18653/V1/2021.EMNLP-MAIN.685
[35] Zhou Wang, Alan C. Bovik, Hamid R. Sheikh, and Eero P. Simoncelli. 2004. Image quality assessment: from error visibility
to structural similarity. IEEE Trans. Image Process. 13, 4 (2004), 600–612. https://doi.org/10.1109/TIP.2003.819861
[36] Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed H. Chi, Quoc V. Le, and
Denny Zhou. 2022. Chain-of-Thought Prompting Elicits Reasoning in Large Language Models. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 35: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2022, NeurIPS 2022, New
Orleans, LA, USA, November 28 - December 9, 2022, Sanmi Koyejo, S. Mohamed, A. Agarwal, Danielle Belgrave, K. Cho,
and A. Oh (Eds.). http://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2022/hash/9d5609613524ecf4f15af0f7b31abca4-AbstractConference.html
[37] Ratnadira Widyasari, Jia Wei Ang, Truong Giang Nguyen, Neil Sharma, and David Lo. 2024. Demystifying Faulty
Code: Step-by-Step Reasoning for Explainable Fault Localization. In IEEE International Conference on Software Analysis,
Evolution and Reengineering, SANER 2024, Rovaniemi, Finland, March 12-15, 2024. IEEE, 568–579. https://doi.org/10.
1109/SANER60148.2024.00064
[38] W. Eric Wong, Joseph R. Horgan, Saul London, and Hiralal Agrawal. 1997. A study of effective regression testing in
practice. In Eighth International Symposium on Software Reliability Engineering, ISSRE 1997, Albuquerque, NM, USA,
November 2-5, 1997. IEEE Computer Society, 264–274. https://doi.org/10.1109/ISSRE.1997.630875

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

RepoRepair: Leveraging Code Documentation for Repository-Level Automated Program Repair

111:27

[39] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yinlin Deng, Soren Dunn, and Lingming Zhang. 2024. Agentless: Demystifying LLM-based Software Engineering Agents. CoRR abs/2407.01489 (2024). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2407.01489 arXiv:2407.01489
[40] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuxiang Wei, and Lingming Zhang. 2023. Automated Program Repair in the Era of Large Pretrained Language Models. In 45th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE 2023, Melbourne,
Australia, May 14-20, 2023. IEEE, 1482–1494. https://doi.org/10.1109/ICSE48619.2023.00129
[41] Chunqiu Steven Xia and Lingming Zhang. 2022. Less training, more repairing please: revisiting automated program
repair via zero-shot learning. In Proceedings of the 30th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and
Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2022, Singapore, Singapore, November 14-18, 2022,
Abhik Roychoudhury, Cristian Cadar, and Miryung Kim (Eds.). ACM, 959–971. https://doi.org/10.1145/3540250.3549101
[42] Chunqiu Steven Xia and Lingming Zhang. 2023. Keep the Conversation Going: Fixing 162 out of 337 bugs for $0.42
each using ChatGPT. CoRR abs/2304.00385 (2023). https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2304.00385 arXiv:2304.00385
[43] Xin Xia, Lingfeng Bao, David Lo, Zhenchang Xing, Ahmed E. Hassan, and Shanping Li. 2018. Measuring program
comprehension: a large-scale field study with professionals. In Proceedings of the 40th International Conference on
Software Engineering, ICSE 2018, Gothenburg, Sweden, May 27 - June 03, 2018, Michel Chaudron, Ivica Crnkovic, Marsha
Chechik, and Mark Harman (Eds.). ACM, 584. https://doi.org/10.1145/3180155.3182538
[44] Aidan Z. H. Yang, Claire Le Goues, Ruben Martins, and Vincent J. Hellendoorn. 2024. Large Language Models for
Test-Free Fault Localization. In Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM International Conference on Software Engineering,
ICSE 2024, Lisbon, Portugal, April 14-20, 2024. ACM, 17:1–17:12. https://doi.org/10.1145/3597503.3623342
[45] Dayu Yang, Antoine Simoulin, Xin Qian, Xiaoyi Liu, Yuwei Cao, Zhaopu Teng, and Grey Yang. 2025. DocAgent: A
Multi-Agent System for Automated Code Documentation Generation. CoRR abs/2504.08725 (2025). https://doi.org/10.
48550/ARXIV.2504.08725 arXiv:2504.08725
[46] John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alexander Wettig, Kilian Lieret, Shunyu Yao, Karthik Narasimhan, and Ofir Press.
2024. SWE-agent: Agent-Computer Interfaces Enable Automated Software Engineering. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems 38: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2024, NeurIPS 2024,
Vancouver, BC, Canada, December 10 - 15, 2024, Amir Globersons, Lester Mackey, Danielle Belgrave, Angela Fan,
Ulrich Paquet, Jakub M. Tomczak, and Cheng Zhang (Eds.). http://papers.nips.cc/paper_files/paper/2024/hash/
5a7c947568c1b1328ccc5230172e1e7c-Abstract-Conference.html
[47] John Yang, Carlos E. Jimenez, Alex L. Zhang, Kilian Lieret, Joyce Yang, Xindi Wu, Ori Press, Niklas Muennighoff, Gabriel
Synnaeve, Karthik R. Narasimhan, Diyi Yang, Sida Wang, and Ofir Press. 2025. SWE-bench Multimodal: Do AI Systems
Generalize to Visual Software Domains?. In The Thirteenth International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR
2025, Singapore, April 24-28, 2025. OpenReview.net. https://openreview.net/forum?id=riTiq3i21b
[48] Yuntong Zhang, Haifeng Ruan, Zhiyu Fan, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. AutoCodeRover: Autonomous Program
Improvement. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium on Software Testing and Analysis,
ISSTA 2024, Vienna, Austria, September 16-20, 2024, Maria Christakis and Michael Pradel (Eds.). ACM, 1592–1604.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3650212.3680384
[49] Junji Zhi, Vahid Garousi-Yusifoglu, Bo Sun, Golara Garousi, S. M. Shahnewaz, and Günther Ruhe. 2015. Cost, benefits
and quality of software development documentation: A systematic mapping. J. Syst. Softw. 99 (2015), 175–198.
https://doi.org/10.1016/J.JSS.2014.09.042

Received 20 February 2007; revised 12 March 2009; accepted 5 June 2009

ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., Vol. 37, No. 4, Article 111. Publication date: August 2018.

