Teaching Code LLMs to Use Autocompletion Tools
in Repository-Level Code Generation
Chong Wang∗ , Jian Zhang∗ , Yebo Feng∗ , Tianlin Li∗ , Weisong Sun∗ , Yang Liu∗ , and Xin Peng†
∗ School of Computer Science and Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore

arXiv:2401.06391v3 [cs.SE] 18 Jul 2024

{chong.wang, jian_zhang, yebo.feng}@ntu.edu.sg, tianlin001@e.ntu.edu.sg, {weisong.sun, yangliu}@ntu.edu.sg
† School of Computer Science and Shanghai Key Laboratory of Data Science, Fudan University, China
pengxin@fudan.edu.cn

to automatically generate code based on provided natural
language descriptions. These code LLMs have demonstrated
notable effectiveness in the generation of code blocks or
functions. For instance, CodeLlama [12], built upon the
foundational Llama2 model [25], has achieved state-of-theart results among open code LLMs (e.g., CodeGen [8] and
StarCoder [11]), on benchmarks like HumanEval [3] and
MBPP [26] that focus on standalone functions.
However, it is crucial to emphasize that in real-world code
repositories, more than 70% of functions are not standalone [27].
Code LLMs encounter significant challenges when generating
such real-world functions, primarily because they cannot
be aware of repository-level dependencies, such as userdefined functions and attributes, during the code generation
process [27]. This limitation often leads to the generation of
code with dependency errors, including undefined-variable
and no-member errors. These errors impede the usability and
effectiveness of the code LLMs [28]. For example, consider the
scenario depicted in Figure 1. A code LLM (e.g., CodeLlama)
might incorrectly predict “_updates” after generating “...
self.”, resulting in a no-member error because the object
“self” does not possess an attribute named “_updates”.
Meanwhile, modern Integrated Development Environments
(IDEs) take a different approach, which typically incorporates
code autocompletion tools based on program analysis. These
tools, like Jedi [29], leverage their ability to analyze the current
incomplete function’s state and project context to provide valid
completion recommendations. This includes suggestions for
accessible variables, attributes, and functions. For instance,
when encountering “self.” in Figure 1, Jedi can infer and
recommend 68 accessible attributes defined within “self”,
including the target suggestion “_registered_updates”.
Therefore, if we can seamlessly switch between code LLMs
and the use of autocompletion tools, we have the potential to
significantly reduce the occurrence of dependency errors in
I. I NTRODUCTION
repository-level code generation.
Code generation has been a longstanding focal point
In fact, recent research has delved into the integration
in the field of software engineering. Recent advancements of external tools into the generation process of LLMs to
have introduced a variety of code large language models mitigate their limitations in constrained generation scenarios.
(LLMs) [1]–[13] constructed upon the Transformer model One noteworthy example is ToolFormer [30], which creates
architecture [14], achieving promising performance in code- an augmented dataset to instruct LLMs on invoking existing
related applications [15]–[24]. These models are either pre- arithmetic calculators. This integration effectively reduces
trained or fine-tuned on extensive code corpora, enabling them errors in generated text involving arithmetic calculations.
Abstract—Recent code large language models (LLMs) have
shown promising performance in generating standalone functions.
However, they face limitations in repository-level code generation
due to their lack of awareness of repository-level dependencies
(e.g., user-defined attributes), resulting in dependency errors such
as undefined-variable and no-member errors. In this work, we
introduce T OOL G EN, an approach that integrates autocompletion
tools into the code LLM generation process to address these
dependencies. T OOL G EN comprises two main phases: Trigger
Insertion and Model Fine-tuning (Offline), and Tool-integrated
Code Generation (Online). During the offline phase, T OOL G EN
augments functions within a given code corpus with a special mark
token, indicating positions to trigger autocompletion tools. These
augmented functions, along with their corresponding descriptions,
are then used to fine-tune a selected code LLM. In the online
phase, T OOL G EN iteratively generates functions by predicting
tokens step-by-step using the fine-tuned LLM. Whenever a mark
token is encountered, T OOL G EN invokes the autocompletion tool
to suggest code completions and selects the most appropriate one
through constrained greedy search.
We conduct comprehensive experiments to evaluate T OOL G EN’s effectiveness in repository-level code generation across three
distinct code LLMs: CodeGPT, CodeT5, and CodeLlama. To facilitate this evaluation, we create a benchmark comprising 671 realworld code repositories and introduce two new dependency-based
metrics: Dependency Coverage and Static Validity Rate. The results
demonstrate that T OOL G EN significantly improves Dependency
Coverage by 31.4% to 39.1% and Static Validity Rate by 44.9%
to 57.7% across the three LLMs, while maintaining competitive
or improved performance in widely recognized similarity metrics
such as BLEU-4, CodeBLEU, Edit Similarity, and Exact Match.
On the CoderEval dataset, T OOL G EN achieves improvements
of 40.0% and 25.0% in test pass rate (Pass@1) for CodeT5
and CodeLlama, respectively, while maintaining the same pass
rate for CodeGPT. T OOL G EN also demonstrates high efficiency
in repository-level code generation, with latency ranging from
0.63 to 2.34 seconds for generating each function. Furthermore,
our generalizability evaluation confirms T OOL G EN’s consistent
performance when applied to diverse code LLMs, encompassing
various model architectures and scales.

Repository: zomux/deepy

File: layers/layer.py

# Register updates that will be executed in each iteration.
def register_updates(self, *updates):
for update in updates:
self.
CodeLlama Prediction:
Jedi Completions:
(68 suggestions)

_updates

no-member error

1. activation
2. belongs_to

...

46. _registered_updates

...

target

Fig. 1: Illustrative Example of LLM Prediction and Tool
Completion

Building upon ToolFormer’s inspiration, Zhang et al. [31]
introduce ToolCoder, an approach designed to teach LLMs
how to utilize information-retrieval-based (IR-based) API
search tools during the code generation process. While ToolCoder targets the generation of functionally correct standalone
functions and demonstrates promising results, the integrated
IR-based API search tools do not consider repository-level
dependencies, limiting their potential in resolving dependency
errors. Additionally, ToolFormer and ToolCoder are unable to
handle scenarios where the tools return multiple candidates.
Another relevant example of harnessing external tools is
Repilot [32], which leverages code completion tools to filter
out impractical suggestions made by LLMs in the context of
automatic program repairing (APR). Unlike repository-level
code generation, Repilot’s primary focus is on generating
valid single-hunk bug-fix patches rather than entire functions.
When applying Repilot to function-level code generation, the
autocompletion tools are frequently triggered unnecessarily,
resulting in significant overhead and impracticality.
In this work, we aim at integrating program-analysis-based
code autocompletion tools into the generation process of
code LLMs. Achieving the incorporation presents two key
challenges. (i) Determining when to trigger the invocation
of autocompletion tools during the generation process:
The generation process of LLMs is a step-by-step decoding
process where each subsequent token is predicted based on
previous tokens. In general, a function consists of dozens
or even hundreds of tokens, making it impractical to invoke
code autocompletion tools at every decoding step. In the
case of tools like ToolFormer and ToolCoder, ChatGPT is
employed to augment the training corpus by introducing special
tokens into the text or code to mark positions where tool
invocation is needed. After training on this augmented corpus,
LLMs can predict the special token at the appropriate step,
thereby triggering tool invocation. However, this ChatGPTbased augmentation method is less effective for repositorylevel code generation due to the presence of repository-level
dependencies. The special token must be precisely inserted at
positions involving such dependencies, such as when accessing

user-defined variables. (ii) Selecting the target suggestion
from the recommended completions of autocompletion tools:
Different from tools like arithmetic calculation or API search
integrated into ToolFormer and ToolCoder, which return a
single result for each invocation, autocompletion tools often
provide multiple completion suggestions sorted alphabetically.
For instance, as depicted in Figure 1, Jedi returns a list of 68
completion suggestions (excluding builtin attributes), with the
target suggestion being the 46th one in the list. Consequently,
after invoking autocompletion tools, it is essential to assess the
suggestions based on the generated code and select the most
appropriate one. Furthermore, this selection process needs to
be seamlessly integrated into the code generation process to
ensure efficiency and coherence.
To tackle the challenges, we propose T OOL G EN, an approach
to integrate autocompletion tools into the generation process
of code LLMs to support repository-level code generation.
T OOL G EN has two main phases: Trigger Insertion and Model
Fine-tuning (Offline), and Tool-integrated Code Generation
(Online). In the offline phase, T OOL G EN analyzes source files
within a corpus of code repositories, creating abstract syntax
trees (ASTs) and extracting function definitions. It augments
these functions by inserting a special token, <COMP>, signifying
the positions to trigger autocompletion tools. The insertion
positions are established by navigating through the functions
and identifying the identifiers that can be recommended by
autocomplete tools. These augmented functions, paired with
their respective descriptions, are then employed to fine-tune a
selected code LLM. In the online phase, T OOL G EN iteratively
constructs a function based on a provided description by
predicting tokens step-by-step through the fine-tuned LLM.
Whenever a <COMP> token is encountered, T OOL G EN invokes
the autocompletion tool to suggest code completions, drawing
from the current repository context. Subsequently, it identifies
the most appropriate suggestion through a constraint greedy
search algorithm, appending this selected suggestion to the
current tokens. This process continues as it predicts tokens
until a specified termination condition is satisfied.
We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the effectiveness of T OOL G EN in repository-level code generation
across three distinct code LLMs, namely, CodeGPT [33],
CodeT5 [4], and CodeLlama [12]. To facilitate this evaluation,
we first construct a benchmark, which includes 12,406 Python
functions from 671 real-world code repositories and 176
coding tasks from CoderEval dataset [27]. We define two
new repository-level metrics, namely Dependency Coverage
and Static Validity Rate. Dependency Coverage quantifies the
proportion of repository-level dependencies present in groundtruth functions and successfully covered by the generated
functions, while Static Validity Rate measures the percentage
of generated functions that pass a dependency error check.
The evaluation results on the 12,406 functions demonstrate
that T OOL G EN exhibits comparable or improved performance
in widely-recognized similarity metrics such as BLEU-4,
CodeBLEU, Edit Similarity, and Exact Match. Importantly,
T OOL G EN achieves significant improvements in Dependency

Coverage, ranging from 31.4% to 39.1%, and Static Validity
Rate, spanning from 44.9% to 57.7%, across the three code
Encoder
Decoder
Decoder
LLMs. On the 176 tasks derived from CoderEval, T OOL G EN
achieves improvements of 40.0% and 25.0% in test pass rate
(Pass@1) for CodeT5 and CodeLlama, respectively, while
docstring
function
docstring
function
maintaining the same pass rate for CodeGPT. T OOL G EN also
(a) Decoder-only Model
(b) Encoder-Decoder Model
demonstrates high efficiency in repository-level code generation,
Fig. 2: Decoder-only Model and Encoder-Decoder Model
with average latency ranging from 0.63 to 2.34 seconds,
attributed to offline fine-tuning with trigger insertion. Moreover,
the results from our generalizability evaluation confirm that
sequence into the model’s decoder and proceeds to predict
T OOL G EN consistently performs well across a variety of code
a function token-by-token, based on the context provided
LLMs, with different model architectures and scales.
by the description and previously predicted tokens.
In summary, this paper presents the following key contribu• Encoder-Decoder Models: As depicted in Figure 2b,
tions:
encoder-decoder code LLMs, such as CodeT5 [4] and
• T OOL G EN , an novel approach that seamlessly integrates
CodeT5+ [5], encompass both the encoder and decoder
autocompletion tools into the generation process of code
components of the Transformer architecture. In this case,
LLMs, which consists of Trigger Insertion and Model Finethe employed model also tokenizes the description into
tuning (Offline), and Tool-integrated Code Generation (Ona token sequence, but the sequence is first processed by
line). T OOL G EN seamlessly integrates the autocompletion
the model’s encoder. The model’s decoder is then tasked
tool into the generation process of code LLMs, thereby
with predicting a function token-by-token, relying on the
enhancing repository-level code generation. The offline
representation produced by the encoder and the context
phase results in an Augmented Dataset, which comprises
provided by the preceding tokens.
249,298 Python functions sourced from a diverse selection
On
top of the standard generation process, to ensure that
of 12,231 code repositories. Each function is augmented
the
employed
code LLM can recognize and predict the special
with a special token, <COMP>, which signifies positions
token
<COMP>, we initially incorporate this token into the
suitable for invoking autocompletion tools.
LLM’s vocabulary, denoted as Vllm . Formally, this addition
• An Evaluation Benchmark, which encompasses 12,406
Python functions drawn from 671 real-world code reposi- results in an expanded vocabulary represented as:
tories and 176 coding tasks with test cases derived from
V ← Vllm ∪ {<COMP>}
(1)
CoderEval, along with the introduction of two novel
For the employed code LLM, within the generation process,
repository-level metrics: Dependency Coverage and Static
we
define its tokenization process as a procedure:
Validity Rate.
• Extensive Experimental Results, which affirm the ef∗
∗
LLM - TOKENIZE : Σchar → V
(2)
ficacy of T OOL G EN in repository-level code generation.
T OOL G EN demonstrates substantial improvements in Here, Σ∗
char represents a character sequence of either a
Dependency Coverage, ranging from 31.4% to 39.1%, description or a code snippet, and V∗ corresponds to the
and Static Validity Rate, spanning from 44.9% to 57.7%, resulting sequence of tokens drawn from V.
across three distinct code LLMs. Additionally, T OOL G EN
The next token prediction involved in each step is defined
achieves 40% and 25% improvements in test pass rate as a procedure:
for CodeT5 and CodeLlama, respectively, with high
∗
∗
|V|
LLM - PREDICT : (V , V ) → [0, 1]
(3)
generation efficiency.
In this context, the two input token sequences (V∗ ) represent
a description and an incomplete function, respectively, while
A. Code LLMs
[0, 1]|V| signifies a probability distribution encompassing |V|
Typically, there are two main categories of code LLMs that probabilities [0, 1]. Here, |V| is the size (token numbers) of
can be employed for code generation. These categories include the vocabulary V.
decoder-only models and encoder-decoder models, each of
Example: In Figure 1, CodeLlama takes the description
which conducts the code generation process base on a given “Register updates...” and the incomplete function “... self.”
description as outlined below:
as inputs. It then performs a prediction, generating a probability
• Decoder-only Models: Illustrated in Figure 2a, decoder- distribution of size |V|, wherein the token “_updates”
only code LLMs, such as CodeGPT [33] and CodeL- exhibits the highest probability among all tokens.
lama [12], consist solely of a decoder component derived
from the Transformer architecture [14]. An employed B. Autocompletion Tools
decoder-only model first tokenizes the input description
An autocompletion tool takes a code repository and a caret
into a sequence of tokens. Subsequently, it feeds this token position (defined as a tuple containing source file, line number,
II. P RELIMINARIES

and column number) as input and provides a list of completion
suggestions. We define this completion process as a procedure:
∗
TOOL - COMPLETE : (Σrepo , Σpos ) → Σiden

(4)

Here, Σrepo and Σpos respectively represent the domains of
code repositories and caret positions, Σiden encompasses all
possible identifiers such that Σ∗iden is a list of identifiers.
It’s worth noting that autocompletion tools often provide a
wide range of completion suggestions, including keywords and
partial identifiers. In our context, we focus solely on identifierlevel completions, as keywords are relatively straightforward for
code LLMs to predict, and partial identifiers are encompassed
by identifier-level completions.
Example: In Figure 1, when provided with the code
repository and caret position, Jedi is capable of generating
86 completion suggestions for the incomplete function "...
self.".
III. A PPROACH
In this section, we elaborate on our approach named
T OOL G EN to integrate autocompletion tools into the generation process of code LLMs to support repository-level code
generation.
A. Overview
Figure 3 presents an overview of T OOL G EN, which consists
of two main phases, namely (i) Trigger Insertion and
Model Fine-tuning (Offline) and (ii) Tool-integrated Code
Generation (Online).
In trigger insertion and model fine-tuning, T OOL G EN parses
each source file in the given code repositories into an abstract
syntax tree (AST) and then extracts function definitions from
the AST; For each extract function definition, T OOL G EN then
utilizes an autocompletion tool to augment it with the special
token <COMP> to mark the positions to invoke the tool, and then
assembles a pair of description and augmented function; After
process all code repositories, T OOL G EN employs the resulting
pairs of descriptions and augmented functions to fine-tune a
code LLM, resulting in a fine-tuned code LLM that can predict
<COMP> at suitable positions to trigger the autocompletion tool.
In tool-integrated code generation, T OOL G EN generates a
token sequence to form a function by an iterative process, in
which, at each step, one or multiple tokens are yielded by
the fine-tuned code LLM and the employed autocompletion
tool. At certain step, ❶ the fine-tuned code LLM takes the
given description and the incomplete function as inputs and
predicts the next token; The predicted token is appended to the
incomplete function; ❷ If the predicted token equals <COMP>,
the autocomplete tool is triggered and a list of completion
suggestions is returned based on the current repository context;
❸ T OOL G EN then selects the most suitable one from the
suggestions with the fine-tuned code LLM and appends the
selected suggestion to the incomplete function.

B. Trigger Insertion and Model Fine-tuning
1) Trigger Insertion: We employ a trigger insertion method
to facilitate the learning process of code LLMs in determining
when to utilize autocompletion tools during code generation.
In this method, the special token <COMP> is inserted at
specific locations within code functions, indicating when
autocompletion tools should be triggered.
Given a code repository R, we traverse each source file f ile
within it based on the file’s suffix (e.g., .py for Python) and
then proceed to analyze the functions defined in the source file.
To achieve this, we parse the source file into an abstract syntax
tree (AST), where the functions are represented as functiondefinition nodes. Each function-definition node contains multiple AST-tokens, which are smallest individual units, such as
keywords, identifiers, literals, operators, and punctuators, within
programming language syntax. Note that these AST-tokens
differ from the tokens in the LLM’s vocabulary Vllm . Typically,
an AST-token comprises one or more tokens from Vllm .
For example, the AST-token “_registered_updates”
consists of six tokens in vocabulary of CodeLlama, i.e., [“_”,
“register”, “ed”, “_”, “up”, “dates”].
For each function within the source file, we identify its
corresponding function-definition node, denoted as node, and
apply Algorithm 1 to it. The purpose of this algorithm is
to traverse the function body and identify specific identifiers
that are eligible for suggestions by autocomplete tools. Subsequently, the special token <COMP> is inserted in front of these
chosen identifiers. More specifically, as the algorithm iterates
through each AST-token t within the function body node.body
(line 2), it performs two crucial checks. First, it employs the
IS I DENTIFIER procedure to determine whether t is an identifier.
Second, it verifies that t is not a built-in attribute, such as
“__dict__” in Python, using the IS B UILTIN procedure. These
conditions are essential because dependency errors often arise
from user-defined attributes categorized as identifiers rather
than other AST-tokens like language keywords. Additionally,
these checks prevent the insertion of <COMP> at positions where
the code LLM can confidently predict the following tokens, thus
minimizing unnecessary tool invocations. When both conditions
are met, the algorithm updates the caret position P to the start
position of t (line 4) and invokes the autocompletion tool to
obtain a list of completion suggestions, denoted as C (line 5).
If C contains t, indicating that the tool can propose the desired
identifier, the special token <COMP> is inserted before t to
mark the position for triggering the autocompletion tool (lines
6-7). Upon executing the algorithm, we obtain the augmented
function code Faug .
Next, we assemble a tuple (D, Faug ), in which D corresponds to the concatenation of the signature and docstring of
the parsed function. Note that functions lacking corresponding
docstrings are omitted from our process as our repository-level
code generation relies on textual descriptions as input. Once we
complete the processing of all code repositories, we accumulate
an augmented dataset that contains a substantial number of
these data tuples.

Repo: zomux/deepy
File: layers/layer.py

Next Token

Fine-tuned
Code LLM

Code LLM
Code Repositories

tok

Docstring, Augmented function

1 Next Token Pr ediction

×N

each source
file

_registered_updates

<COMP>?

Selected Suggestion
F unction
Definition

Abstract Syntax Tree

Fine-tuned
Code LLM

Autocompltion Tool
Autocompletion
Tool

yes

Fine-tuned
Code LLM
Completion Suggetions

3 Suggestion Selection

Tr igger Inser tion

Offline: Tr igger Inser tion and Model Fine-tuning

Autocompltion Tool
Autocompletion
Tool

2 Code Autocompletion

Online: Tool-integr ated Code Gener ation

Fig. 3: Approach Overview of T OOL G EN

Algorithm 1: Trigger Insertion
Input: Repository R, Source File f ile,
Function-definition node node
Output: Augmented function Faug
1 Faug ← GET S IGNATURE (node)
// signature
2 for t in node.body do
3
if IS I DENTIFIER(t) and not IS B UILTIN(t) then
4
P = (f ile, t.start_line, t.start_column)
5
C ← TOOL - COMPLETE(R, P)
6
if t ∈ C then
7
Faug .append(<COMP>)
8

Faug .append(t)

def register_updates(self, *updates):
for update in <COMP>updates:
self.<COMP>_registered_updates.<COMP>add(<COMP>update)

Fig. 4: Augmented Function

2) Model Fine-tuning: During the fine-tuning process, we
supply the collected descriptions and augmented functions
to optimize the parameters of the employ code LLM (base
model), adhering to established practices in code generation
tasks. Specifically, for each pair consisting of a description
D and an augmented function Faug , both are tokenized into
sequences of tokens and subsequently fed into the base model
to undergo the token-by-token generation process described in
Section II-A. At each step, a cross-entropy loss is computed
between the predicted probability distribution of the next token
and the ground-truth next token present in Faug .
In the case of code LLMs with an extensive number of parameters, such as CodeLlama-7B with 7 billion parameters, finetuning all parameters becomes computationally challenging due
to resource limitations. To address this, we employ Low-Rank
Adaptation (LoRA) [36] as a parameter-efficient fine-tuning
technique. LoRA relies on low-dimensional representations and
a freeze-and-inject strategy, where the majority of the model
parameters remain fixed, and trainable low-rank matrices are
introduced into specific transformer layers, particularly the
projection matrices within the attention module, to approximate
weight updates.

Note that our trigger insertion method can be applied to C. Tool-integrated Code Generation
arbitrary code and is not limited to function bodies alone.
Based on the fine-tuned code LLM and the employed autoCurrently, we focus exclusively on function bodies, as our completion tool, we perform a tool-integrated code generation
primary application scenario involves generating code based on process that is aware to the repository-level dependencies.
the given natural language descriptions. Extracting descriptions
1) Overall Process: Algorithm 2 outlines the overall toolfor code blocks outside functions for model training and integrated generation process, comprising three crucial parts
evaluation is challenging, due to the difficulty in determining based on the fine-tuned code LLM and the employed autocomthe scope of line comments [34], [35]. Therefore, we solely pletion tool: ❶ Next Token Prediction, ❷ Code Autocompletion,
consider function bodies, where corresponding descriptions can and ❸ Suggestion Selection. This algorithm takes a code
be readily obtained from function docstrings.
repository R, an insertion position P, and a description D
Example: In Figure 4, we showcase an augmented function as inputs and follows an iterative process to generate a token
that contains four instances of the special token <COMP>. These sequence, ultimately constructing a function denoted as F.
tokens have been inserted at positions where the desired iden- Here, the tokens are drawn from the expanded vocabulary V
tifiers, namely “updates”, “_registered_updates”, defined in Equation 1.
“add”, and “update”, are found within the suggestion lists
The iterative process commences with the <BOS> token
of the autocompletion tool.
(representing the beginning of the sequence), i.e., F ← [<BOS>]

in line 2, and proceeds by iteratively updating F until it reaches
the <EOS> token (representing the end of the sequence). During
each iteration step, the algorithm utilizes the description D
and the current incomplete function F as inputs for the finetuned code LLM to execute the LLM - PREDICT procedure. This
procedure predicts a |V|-dimension probability distribution p|V|
for the tokens in the vocabulary V (line 4). Subsequently, the
token tok with the highest probability is selected using the
commonly used ARGMAX function [37] (line 5). The selected
token tok is then appended to F (line 6). If tok corresponds
to the <EOS> token, the iterative process concludes, yielding
the final generated function (lines 7-8).
If tok corresponds to the special token <COMP>, the autocompletion tool is triggered to provide a list of completion
suggestions denoted as C. These suggestions are produced
based on the code repository R and the caret position P ′ after
inserting F at P (lines 9-11). Notably, when F is inserted
using the INSERT procedure, any <COMP> tokens within it
are removed to prevent syntax errors. The fine-tuned code
LLM is then employed to assess the completion suggestions
and select the most suitable one for F by the LLM - SELECT
procedure (line 12). The tokens from the selected suggestion
are concatenated to F.
Example: In the case of the incomplete code snippet shown
in Figure 1, Algorithm 2 predicts the next token as <COMP>
through the fine-tuned code LLM. This prediction triggers the
autocompletion tool. Subsequently, the resulting completion
suggestions are fed into the LLM - SELECT procedure, which
determines the most appropriate suggestion.
Algorithm 2: Tool-integrated Code Generation
Input: Repository R, Description D, Insertion Position
P
Output: Function F
1 D ← LLM - TOKENIZE (D)
2 F ← [<BOS>]
3 while true do
4
5
6
7
8

/* ❶ Next Token Prediction
p|V| ← LLM - PREDICT(D, F)

11

if tok = <COMP> then
P ′ ← INSERT(P, F)
C ← TOOL - COMPLETE(R, P ′ )

12

/* ❸ Suggestion Selection
LLM - SELECT (D, F, C)

10

ε

belongs
_

···

_

to

link

ed

_

block

register

ed

_

up

dates

···

Fig. 5: Example Prefix Tree
inserts this token sequence into a prefix tree [38], denoted
as trie (lines 1-5). Each node in the tree possesses four
properties: node.token, node.tok_idx, node.children, and
node.is_terminal, indicating the token stored in the node, the
index of the stored token in V, the child nodes of the current
node, and whether the node corresponding to the terminal of a
token sequence. The root node, trie.root, is a unique node that
stores ϵ, signifying an empty string. Every path from trie.root
to a terminal node corresponds to a token sequence from C. As
an illustration, Figure 5 presents the prefix tree corresponding
to the 68 completion suggestions shown in Figure 1. In this
example, nodes enclosed in blue boxes indicate the terminals
of token sequences.
Algorithm 3: Suggestion Selection based on Constraint
Greedy Search
Procedure LLM - SELECT(D, F, C):
trie ← T rie()
// prefix tree
3
for comp in C do
4
seq ← LLM - TOKENIZE(comp)
5
trie.insert(seq)

1

2

6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13

tok ← ARGMAX(V, p|V| )
F ← F ⊕ [tok]
if tok = <EOS> then
break
/* ❷ Code Autocompletion

9

*/

activation

14
15
16
17

node ← trie.root
while not node.is_terminal do
m|V| ← 0
for child in node.children do
m|V| [child.tok_idx] ← 1
p|V| ← LLM - PREDICT(D, F)
p|V| ← p|V| ⊙ m|V|
tok ← ARGMAX(V, p|V| )
F ← F ⊕ tok
for child in node.children do
if child.token = tok then
node ← child
break

*/

18

*/

Subsequently, the algorithm proceeds to select a path in trie
in a greedy fashion, based on predictions made by the finetuned code LLM, and appends the token sequence associated
with the chosen path to the incomplete function F (lines 6-13).
Specifically, the algorithm initiates a node pointer, denoted as
node, with the root node trie.root (line 6). A loop continues
until the pointer node reaches a terminal node (line 7). Within
this loop, a |V|-dimensional mask vector, denoted as m|V| , is
generated based on the children of the current node (lines 8-10).

2) Completion Suggestion Selection: Algorithm 3 provides
a description of the LLM - SELECT procedure, which is called
within Algorithm 2. To begin, it tokenizes each completion
in C into a sequence of tokens from V using the code
LLM’s tokenizer (via the LLM - TOKENIZE procedure) and

In m|V| , only positions corresponding to the tok_idx property
dataset [40], comprising 1.1 million Python functions.
of the children of node are assigned a value of 1, while all other
For our purposes, we adopt the pre-trained CodeGPTpositions are set to 0. Subsequently, the fine-tuned code LLM
small version1 , which encompasses 124 million model
|V|
is employed to predict a probability distribution, p (line 11).
parameters.
This predicted distribution is then element-wise multiplied by
• CodeT5: CodeT5 [4] belongs to the encoder-decoder
the mask vector m|V| , effectively setting the probability of
model category and is similarly pre-trained on the Python
tokens not in the children of node to 0. The next token, tok,
corpus from the CodeSearchNet dataset. We select the
is selected from V based on the highest probability in p|V|
pre-trained CodeT5-base version2 , which comprises 220
using the ARGMAX function and is appended to the current
million model parameters.
incomplete function F (lines 13-14). Finally, the node pointer
• CodeLlama: CodeLlama [12] represents another decoderis updated to point to the child of node whose stored token
only model, specialized for code-related tasks and based
matches the selected token tok (line 15-18).
on Llama2 [25]. It is pre-trained on an even larger
Python corpus, encompassing a staggering 100 billion
Example: For the prefix tree illustrated in Figure 5, the
tokens sourced from a Python-centric dataset [12]. For our
LLM - SELECT procedure iteratively selects the next tokens
purposes, we adopt the pre-trained CodeLlama-7b version3 ,
within the tree, guided by the LLM’s predictions. This iterative
featuring a substantial 7 billion model parameters.
process results in the inclusion of tokens corresponding to
the suggestion “_registered_updates”, which are found We refer to the variants of T OOL G EN, namely T OOL G EN-gpt,
along the green path, being appended to the incomplete T OOL G EN-t5, and T OOL G EN-llama, corresponding to the
function.
underlying base models CodeGPT, CodeT5, and CodeLlama,
respectively.
IV. E VALUATION S ETUP
Autocompletion Tool. We employ Jedi [29] as our autocomTo evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of T OOL G EN in
pletion tool. Jedi is a static analysis tool designed for Python,
repository-level code generation, we conduct a comprehensive
commonly utilized within integrated development environments
set of experiments.
(IDEs) and editor plugins. Utilizing Jedi, T OOL G EN can
trigger autocompletion, generating a list of suggestions that
A. Research Questions
encompasses repository-level dependencies, including userWe formulate the following research questions to guide our
defined attributes and functions.
evaluation:
Trigger Insertion. To create the augmented dataset for
• RQ1 - Similarity-based Effectiveness: How closely does
fine-tuning the employed base model, we begin with the
the code generated by T OOL G EN align with the ground
Python corpus from the training set of CodeSearchNet dataset.
truth when assessed using common similarity metrics?
Since the CodeSearchNet dataset does not provide complete
• RQ2 - Dependency-based Effectiveness: To what degree
code repositories from which to extract Python functions, we
can T OOL G EN cover repository-level dependencies and
initiate the process by crawling the code repositories listed in
reduce dependency errors, including those related to userthe dataset. Subsequently, we follow the procedure outlined
defined functions and attributes?
in Section III-B1 to extract and augment functions within
• RQ3 - Execution-based Effectiveness: How effectively
these code repositories, ultimately generating the augmented
can T OOL G EN generate functionally correct functions that
dataset. It’s important to note that the CodeSearchNet dataset
pass test cases?
includes a partitioning into training, validation, and test sets.
• RQ4 - Efficiency: What is the average time T OOL G EN
For our trigger insertion process, we exclusively utilize the
takes to generate functions?
code repositories associated with the training set. The resulting
• RQ5 - Generalizability: Is T OOL G EN effective in code
augmented dataset comprises a total of 249,298 pairs of
generation when applied to different code LLMs?
descriptions and augmented functions, which are sourced from
12,231 distinct Python code repositories. Regarding dataset
B. Implementation
statistics, the average token count for descriptions is 10.98, and
Although T OOL G EN is designed to be language-agnostic,
for augmented functions, it is 55.31. Additionally, the special
our current focus is on developing a Python-specific prototype
token <COMP> appears an average of 5.54 times within these
of T OOL G EN.
functions.
Base Model. In T OOL G EN, we explore the utilization of
Model Fine-tuning. In the fine-tuning process, we adopt
three distinct code LLMs to encompass diverse model archidifferent
strategies for CodeGPT, CodeT5, and CodeLlama: For
tectures and parameter scales. These code LLMs demonstrate
CodeGPT
and CodeT5, we perform full-parameter fine-tuning,
impressive performance in code generation and have found
optimizing
all model parameters during this phase. In the case
extensive utilization in prior studies [4], [5], [12], [33], [39]
of
CodeLlama,
we employ LoRA with a reduction factor (r)
for fine-tuning and evaluation.
•

CodeGPT: CodeGPT [33] falls into the category
of decoder-only models. It undergoes pre-training on
a Python corpus sourced from the CodeSearchNet

1 https://huggingface.co/microsoft/CodeGPT-small-py
2 https://huggingface.co/Salesforce/codet5-base
3 https://huggingface.co/codellama/CodeLlama-7b-Python-hf

of 8 and a scaling factor (alpha) of 16 to achieve parameterefficient fine-tuning. This approach allows us to optimize only
3.86% of the trainable parameters in comparison to the original
CodeLlama model. The fine-tuning settings for learning rate
and batch size are consistent across all three models, with a
learning rate of 5E-6 and a batch size of 32. However, the
number of epochs differs: 10 epochs for CodeGPT and CodeT5,
while CodeLlama undergoes fine-tuning for 3 epochs. To ensure
reproducibility, we set the seed for random functions to 42
consistently across all packages and libraries used.
C. Evaluation Benchmark
1) Datasets: To evaluate T OOL G EN, we curate two datasets:
(i) a large dataset derived from the CodeSearchNet [40] to
assess similarity-based and dependency-based effectiveness
(RQ1 and RQ2); (ii) a dataset derived from CoderEval [27]
containing test cases to evaluate execution-based effectiveness
(RQ3).
CodeSearchNet. To assess similarity-based and dependencybased effectiveness, we follow this process to construct the
dataset: We start by crawling the code repositories listed in the
test set of the CodeSearchNet dataset, ensuring no overlap with
the training set used for model fine-tuning. We then extract
pairs of descriptions and functions from these repositories by
parsing and traversing Abstract Syntax Trees (ASTs), similar to
the method described in Section III-B1. This process yields an
evaluation dataset comprising 12,406 Python functions sourced
from 671 code repositories. On average, the descriptions contain
10.66 tokens, while the functions consist of an average of 54.54
tokens.
CoderEval. To evaluate execution-based effectiveness, we
initially gather all 230 Python code generation tasks from
the CoderEval benchmark, extracted from 43 real-world
Python repositories. Each task consists of a natural language
description, a ground-truth code snippet, and a set of test cases,
along with the project environment context associated with
the task (e.g., project source code, dependent libraries, and
test scripts). The tasks are categorized into six runnable levels:
self-contained, slib-runnable, plib-runnable, class-runnable, filerunnable, and project-runnable [27]. Each runnable level relies
on the dependencies defined at that level and does not depend on
those defined at subsequent levels. For example, plib-runnable
indicate that the task requires public third-party libraries, while
file-runnable require dependencies defined in the current file
(e.g., user-defined classes and functions). We remove the tasks
overlapping with the training dataset of T OOL G EN, resulting
in a final dataset containing 176 tasks.
2) Baselines: The different variants of T OOL G EN and the
baselines are presented in Table I, along with the base models
they employ.
Vanilla Baselines. We develop three vanilla baseline approaches by fine-tuning these same base models but performing straightforward code generation without tool integration.
Specifically, the fine-tuning process for the baselines involves
using the 249,298 pairs of descriptions and functions from
the augmented dataset. Notably, the fine-tuning is conducted

on the original functions, prior to the introduction of <COMP>
tokens. The training configurations, including learning rates and
training epochs, mirror those employed in the implementation
of T OOL G EN. After fine-tuning, these models are utilized
to perform straightforward code generation, as outlined in
Section II-A. We label the three baseline approaches as follows:
• VANILLA -gpt: Represents straightforward code generation
using the CodeGPT model fine-tuned on original functions.
• VANILLA -t5: Signifies straightforward code generation
using the CodeT5 model fine-tuned on original functions.
• VANILLA -llama: Designates straightforward code generation with the CodeLlama model fine-tuned on original
functions.
Retrieval-Augmented-Generation (RAG) Baselines. We
also include R EPO C ODER [41], a state-of-the-art approach
that addresses repository-level code generation by integrating
a similarity-based retriever and a pre-trained code language
model in an iterative retrieval-augmented-generation pipeline.
Similarly, we create three variants of R EPO C ODER based on
the three fine-tuned models VANILLA-gpt, VANILLA-t5, and
VANILLA-llama. We directly apply the prompt template defined
in the original implementation of R EPO C ODER. The three
variants of R EPO C ODER are listed as follows:
• R EPO C ODER -gpt: Represents the variant of R EPO C ODER
with the CodeGPT model fine-tuned on original functions.
• R EPO C ODER -t5: Signifies the variant of R EPO C ODER
with the CodeT5 model fine-tuned on original functions.
• R EPO C ODER -llama: Designates the variant of R E PO C ODER with the CodeLlama model fine-tuned on
original functions.
The hyperparameters of R EPO C ODER used in our experiments
follow its default implementation: the retrieval-generation
iteration is set to 2, the window size is 20, and the slice
size is 2.
RAG-based Variants of T OOL G EN. In fact, RAG method
is orthogonal to our tool-integrated approach. To ensure a fair
comparison and further explore the potential of T OOL G EN,
we also develop three RAG-based variants: ragT OOL G EN-gpt,
ragT OOL G EN-t5, and ragT OOL G EN-llama. In these variants,
the employed retrieval process is the same as the R EPO C ODER
baselines.
3) Metrics: In our evaluation, we employ commonly used
similarity-based metrics, two novel dependency-based metrics,
and an execution-based metric to evaluate the effectiveness of
T OOL G EN in repository-level code generation.
Similarity-based Metrics: We utilize the following wellestablished similarity metrics to measure the correspondence
between generated functions and their ground-truth counterparts:
• BLEU-4 [42]: This metric assesses the quality of generated code by comparing n-grams (sequences of n
consecutive tokens) in the generated functions with those
in the ground-truth functions.
• CodeBLEU [33]: Specifically designed for code generation tasks, CodeBLEU evaluates the accuracy of code

TABLE I: Variants of T OOL G EN and baselines.
Approach

Base Model

Architecture

# Parameters

CodeGPT

Decoder-Only

124 Million

CodeT5

Encoder-Decoder 220 Million

test dataset:
PN
DepCov =

VANILLA-gpt
R EPO C ODER-gpt
T OOL G EN-gpt (ours)
ragT OOL G EN-gpt (ours)
VANILLA-t5
R EPO C ODER-t5
T OOL G EN-t5 (ours)
ragT OOL G EN-t5 (ours)
VANILLA-llama
R EPO C ODER-llama

CodeLlama

Decoder-Only

7 Billion

T OOL G EN-llama (ours)
ragT OOL G EN-llama (ours)

generation models by considering code-specific vocabulary
and structure.
• Edit Similarity (EditSim) [43]: This metric measures the
similarity between two pieces of functions by analyzing
the character-level edit operations required to transform
one into the other.
• Exact Match: This metric measures the ratio of the
generated code that are exactly matched with the ground
truth.
The calculation of the similarity-based metrics follows the
implementation in CodeXGLUE4 .
Dependency-based Metrics: To assess the effectiveness
of both T OOL G EN and the baselines in repository-level code
generation, we introduce the dependency-based metrics, namely
Dependency Coverage (DepCov) and Static Validity Rate
(ErrRate).
•

Dependency Coverage (DepCov): This metric calculates the ratio of repository-level dependencies, including user-defined functions and attributes, that appear
in ground-truth functions and are covered by the generated functions. Given the i-th ground-truth function
gti , we identify dependencies by performing the Trigger Insertion procedure (Algorithm 1) and extracting
expressions (such as function calls and attribute accesses like “self._registered_updates”) that are
marked with a trigger. These expressions are considered
dependencies as their definitions can be traced in the
current repository using static analysis tools like Jedi. Next,
for the generated function predi corresponding to gti , we
extract all expressions by traversing its corresponding
AST. We denote the identified dependencies in gti and
extracted expressions in predi as two sets, DEP (gti ) and
EXP (predi ), respectively. The Dependency Coverage
can be calculated as follows, where N is the size of the

4 https://github.com/microsoft/CodeXGLUE

i

|EXP (predi ) ∩ DEP (gti )|
PN
i |DEP (gti )|

Static Validity Rate (ValRate): As repository-level dependencies can potentially introduce dependency errors
in generated functions, we introduce the Static Validity
Rate metric (ValRate) to evaluate the effectiveness of
T OOL G EN in reducing dependency errors. This metric
evaluates the proportion of generated functions that successfully pass a static check for dependency errors, specifically no-member and undefined-variable. To perform this
evaluation, we incorporate the generated functions into
their respective code repositories and conduct static lint
analysis using pylint [44]. Functions that do not exhibit
syntax errors, no-member, or undefined-variable errors
are deemed statically valid. The Static Validity Rate can
be calculated as follows:
|{predi≤N : predi passes lint check}|
V alRate =
N
Execution-based Metric: To further assess the functional
correctness of the generated functions, we also employ a widely
used execution-based metric involving running test cases.
• Test Pass Rate (Pass@1): This metric calculates the ratio
of generated functionally-correct functions that pass all
corresponding test cases. It is evaluated specifically on
the CoderEval dataset, where test cases and test scripts
are provided.
•

V. R ESULTS AND A NALYSES
A. RQ1: Similarity-based Effectiveness
The evaluation results of similarity-based metrics are presented in Table II. When comparing the performance of
T OOL G EN’s variants and the three different base models,
namely CodeGPT, CodeT5, and CodeLlama, we observe
that T OOL G EN achieves similarity scores comparable to the
baselines.
To provide a detailed breakdown, when utilizing CodeGPT
as the base model, T OOL G EN-gpt demonstrates a 2.7% improvement in BLEU-4 and a 11.9% improvement in Exact
Match compared to VANILLA-gpt. However, it exhibits a 1.0%
decrease in CodeBLEU and a 1.1% decrease in Edit Similarity.
With the base model CodeT5, T OOL G EN-t5 exhibits 6.2%,
1.4%, and 27.9% enhancements in BLEU-4, CodeBLEU, and
Exact Match relative to VANILLA-t5 but experiences a 3.1%
decrease in Edit Similarity. In the case of the larger base model
CodeLlama, T OOL G EN-llama shows improvements of 4.2%
and 21.1% in BLEU-4 and Exact Match compared to VANILLAt5 but encounters a 0.6% decrease in CodeBLEU and a 2.4%
decrease in Edit Similarity.
Although the absolute improvements in Exact Match rate
are not large (from 0.5% to 1.2%), considering the size of the
test set (e.g., 12,406 samples), the additional exactly matched
functions range from 62 to 149. The variability in T OOL G EN’s
performance across BLEU-4 and CodeBLEU can be attributed

TABLE II: Evaluation results of similarity-based effectiveness. ∆ indicates the metric improvement or reduction of T OOL G EN’s
variants compared to the baselines.
Similarity-based Metrics

Approach
VANILLA-gpt
T OOL G EN-gpt
VANILLA-t5
T OOL G EN-t5
VANILLA-llama
T OOL G EN-llama

BLEU-4

CodeBLEU

EditSim

ExactMatch

0.331
0.340

0.313
0.310

65.4%
64.7%

4.2%
4.7%

(∆ = +2.7%)

(∆ = −1.0%)

(∆ = −1.1%)

(∆ = +11.9%)

0.341
0.362

0.289
0.293

63.9%
61.9%

4.3%
5.5%

(∆ = +6.2%)

(∆ = +1.4%)

(∆ = −3.1%)

(∆ = +27.9%)

0.408
0.425

0.360
0.358

67.9%
66.3%

5.7%
6.9%

(∆ = +4.2%)

(∆ = −0.6%)

(∆ = −2.4%)

(∆ = +21.1%)

to the tokenization methods used in the calculations. For TABLE III: Evaluation results of dependency-based effectiveBLEU-4, before using the widely used utility script 5 , we ness. DepCov and ValRate represent Dependency Coverage and
first tokenize the generated function and its corresponding Static Validity Rate, respectively. ValRate-dep represents the
ground-truth function using the tokenizer of the base code Static Validity Rate rate calculated only for functions containing
LLMs. In contrast, CodeBLEU is calculated based on the dependencies. ∆ indicates the metric improvement or reduction
original generated and ground-truth code using the utility of T OOL G EN’s variants compared to the baselines.
script6 that employs a simpler method, splitting functions into
Dependency-based Metrics
Approach
strings (e.g., “func(arg1,)”) based on spaces. This splitting
DepCov
ValRate
ValRate-dep
method may introduce inaccuracies in the statistics of matched
VANILLA-gpt
8.7%
50.4%
46.5%
n-grams, consequently affecting the CodeBLEU calculation.
12.1%
79.5%
78.0%
T OOL G EN-gpt
For Edit Similarity, it is calculated at the character level,
(∆ = +39.1%)
(∆ = +57.7%)
(∆ = +67.7%)
making it overly sensitive to semantics-insensitive elements
VANILLA-t5
11.0%
47.3%
42.5%
like temporary variables. When two variables have different
15.0%
70.6%
68.0%
T OOL G EN-t5
(∆ = +36.4%)
(∆ = +49.3%)
(∆ = +60.0%)
names, their similarity is much lower at the character level
VANILLA-llama
14.0%
49.7%
44.4%
than at the token level.
SUMMARY: T OOL G EN demonstrates competitive performance in similarity metrics compared to the baselines
across various base models. It achieves improvements in
BLEU-4 and Exact Match while exhibiting comparable
performance in CodeBLEU and Edit Similarity.
B. RQ2: Dependency-based Effectiveness
1) Dependency Coverage: Table III displays the evaluation
results for repository-level Dependency Coverage (DepCov).
Notably, our approach T OOL G EN demonstrates significant
superiority over the baselines across all three base models.
Specifically, when employing the base models CodeGPT,
CodeT5, and CodeLlama, T OOL G EN surpasses the corresponding baselines in Dependency Coverage by 39.1%, 36.4%, and
31.4%, respectively.
These results underscore the effectiveness of the toolintegrated generation process in enhancing awareness of
repository-level dependencies, a challenge often unaddressed
by the conventional code LLMs. For instance, consider the incomplete function in Figure 1: in a straightforward CodeLlama
generation, it fails to recognize the valid attributes of “self”.
5 https://github.com/microsoft/CodeXGLUE/blob/main/Text-Code/text-tocode/evaluator/bleu.py
6 https://github.com/microsoft/CodeXGLUE/tree/main/Code-Code/code-tocode-trans/evaluator/CodeBLEU

T OOL G EN-llama

18.4%

72.0%

69.6%

(∆ = +31.4%)

(∆ = +44.9%)

(∆ = +56.8%)

However, through tool-integrated generation, T OOL G EN leverages Jedi to deduce a list of completion suggestions, enabling it
to select the most suitable one and cover target repository-level
dependencies, including the usage of user-defined attributes.
Despite the considerable improvement in repository-level
Dependency Coverage facilitated by our approach, it is essential
to acknowledge that the overall coverage remains limited. This
limitation arises from the fact that code LLMs generate function
tokens sequentially from left to right. Consequently, errors tend
to accumulate as the token count increases due to the exposure
bias problem [45]–[47]. This means that code LLMs often
make incorrect token predictions at certain generation steps
and may not produce <COMP> tokens to trigger autocompletion
tools, especially for long functions.
SUMMARY: Our approach, T OOL G EN, consistently
outperforms the baselines in repository-level Dependency
Coverage across all three base models by ranging from
31.4% to 39.1%. These results highlight the effectiveness
of our tool-integrated generation process in addressing the
crucial issue of enhancing awareness of repository-level
dependencies, which is often a challenge for conventional
code LLMs in repository-level code generation.

2) Static Validity Rate: Table III also presents the evaluation
results for Static Validity Rate (ValRate and ValRate-dep)
in repository-level lint analysis, with a particular focus on
no-member and undefined-variable errors. Remarkably, our
approach, T OOL G EN, consistently exhibits significantly higher
Static Validity Rate compared to the baselines across all three
base models. Specifically, when employing the base models
CodeGPT, CodeT5, and CodeLlama, T OOL G EN increases the
Static Validity Rate (ValRate) by 57.7%, 49.3%, and 44.9%,
respectively. When considering only the functions containing
dependencies, T OOL G EN improves the Static Validity Rate
(ValRate-dep) by 67.7%, 60.0%, and 56.8%, respectively.
These results underscore the effectiveness of our toolintegrated generation process in mitigating the production of
invalid identifiers during code generation within a specific repository context. For instance, let’s revisit the incomplete function
in Figure 1: in a straightforward CodeLlama generation, it
may predict a non-existent attribute, such as “updates”, for
“self”. In contrast, through our tool-integrated approach, only
valid completion suggestions inferred by Jedi are considered
as candidates, thereby preventing numerous no-member and
undefined-variable errors.

our T OOL G EN-gpt and T OOL G EN-t5 show improvements in
pass rates with 1 and 2 more functions passing the test cases,
respectively. However, T OOL G EN-llama exhibits a lower pass
rate than R EPO C ODER-llama (15 vs. 19). These variations
can be attributed to several factors: CodeGPT and CodeT5
have fewer parameters (124 million and 220 million) and
stricter token number limitations (1,024 and 512), limiting
their ability to process and understand retrieval-augmented
prompts. In contrast, CodeLlama, with more model parameters
(7 billion) and support for longer token sequences (16,384
tokens), allows R EPO C ODER-llama to achieve a higher pass
rate than VANILLA-llama and T OOL G EN-llama due to the
benefits of RAG.
Integration with RAG. When integrating T OOL G EN with
RAG, ragT OOL G EN-gpt and ragT OOL G EN-t5 do not show improvement, while ragT OOL G EN-llama exhibits breakthroughs
for project-runnable tasks, with 4 more generated functions
passing the test cases. However, the overall pass rate remains
unchanged after integrating RAG, showing different advantages
and disadvantages of RAG integration for various runnablelevel dependencies.

SUMMARY: Our approach, T OOL G EN, consistently
achieves significantly higher Static Validity Rate in
repository-level lint analysis compared to the baselines,
with improvements ranging from 44.9% to 57.7%. These
results underscore the effectiveness of our tool-integrated
generation process in mitigating the generation of invalid
identifiers, a common challenge faced by conventional code
LLMs in the context of repository-level code generation.

SUMMARY: Our approach, T OOL G EN, outperforms
or matches the three VANILLA baselines (VANILLA-gpt,
VANILLA-t5, and VANILLA-llama) by generating 0, 2,
and 3 more functionally correct functions, achieving 0%,
40.0%, and 25.0% improvements in Pass@1, respectively.
Compared to RAG-based R EPO C ODER baselines, both
T OOL G EN and R EPO C ODER have their own advantages
and disadvantages for different base models and runnablelevel dependencies. Additionally, our decoding-stage tool
integration approach shows potential when combined with
prompt-level RAG techniques for addressing certain types
of dependencies.

C. RQ3: Execution-based Effectiveness
Table IV presents the detailed evaluation results for test case
execution (Pass@1) on the 176 CoderEval coding tasks.
Comparison to VANILLA baselines. Compared to the three
VANILLA baselines, our approach T OOL G EN generates 0, 2,
and 3 additional functionally-correct functions, resulting in
0%, 40.0%, and 25.0% improvements in Pass@1, respectively.
Specifically, T OOL G EN-gpt improves the pass rate for filerunnable tasks, while reducing pass rate for self-contained
tasks; T OOL G EN-t5 improves pass rate for slib-runnable filerunnable tasks; T OOL G EN-llama improves pass rate for selfcontained, plib-runnable, and class-runnable tasks. These
tasks require different runnable-level dependencies (such as
local variables and user-defined functions) to achieve correct
functionality in the code. The enhancements by T OOL G EN
underscore the effectiveness of integrating autocompletion tools
to handle these dependencies.
Comparison to R EPO C ODER baselines. Overall, the
R EPO C ODER baselines show unstable performance across
different base models. Specifically, compared to their respective
VANILLA baselines, R EPO C ODER-gpt and R EPO C ODER-t5
exhibit reductions or no improvement in test pass rates,
while R EPO C ODER-llama shows significant improvement.
When compared to R EPO C ODER-gpt and R EPO C ODER-t5,

D. RQ4: Efficiency
Figure 6 illustrates the efficiency evaluation conducted
on a single NVIDIA H100 Tensor Core GPU (80GB GPU
Memory). Our approach exhibits approximately twice the
average generation time for the 176 tasks in the CoderEval
dataset, ranging from 0.63 to 2.34 seconds across different
base models.
The high efficiency of our tool integration is attributed to the
offline trigger insertion and fine-tuning. The autocompletion
tool is triggered only when the fine-tuned models predict the
trigger token <COMP>, significantly reducing unnecessary tool
invocations. Specifically, the fine-tuned CodeGPT, CodeT5, and
CodeLlama predict an average of 5.02, 6.24, and 7.05 <COMP>
tokens per task, respectively, which is much fewer than the
average function length. Additionally, during the generation of
a function, autocompletion is often triggered multiple times for
the same objects (e.g., “self”); we maintain a cache to recall
completion suggestions for previously visited objects, thereby
avoiding repeated tool invocations for the same objects.

TABLE IV: Evaluation results of execution-based effectiveness. self, slib, plib, class, file, and project represent self-contained,
slib-runnable, plib-runnable, class-runnable, file-runnable, and project-runnable, respectively. The numbers in brackets after each
runnable level indicate the corresponding number of tasks, while the numbers in brackets after the rates indicate the number of
generated functions that pass the test cases. In each base model group, the best results are highlighted in gray , except when all
results are the same.
Execution-based Metric (Pass@1)

Approach
total (176)

self (26)

slib (23)

plib (15)

class (49)

file (51)

VANILLA-gpt

3.4% (6)

7.7% (2)

4.3% (1)

6.7% (1)

2.0% (1)

2.0% (1)

project (12)
0.0% (0)

T OOL G EN-gpt (ours)

3.4% (6)

3.8% (1)

4.3% (1)

6.7% (1)

2.0% (1)

3.9% (2)

0.0% (0)

R EPO C ODER-gpt

2.8% (5)

0.0% (0)

4.3% (1)

6.7% (1)

4.1% (2)

2.0% (1)

0.0% (0)

ragT OOL G EN-gpt (ours)

2.8% (5)

0.0% (0)

4.3% (1)

6.7% (1)

4.1% (2)

2.0% (1)

0.0% (0)

VANILLA-t5

4.0% (7)

7.7% (2)

4.3% (1)

13.3% (2)

4.1% (2)

0.0% (0)

0.0% (0)

T OOL G EN-t5 (ours)

5.1% (9)

15.4% (4)

8.7% (2)

6.7% (1)

4.1% (2)

0.0% (0)

0.0% (0)
0.0% (0)

R EPO C ODER-t5

4.0% (7)

7.7% (2)

4.3% (1)

13.3% (2)

4.1% (2)

0.0% (0)

ragT OOL G EN-t5 (ours)

5.1% (9)

15.4% (4)

8.7% (2)

6.7% (1)

4.1% (2)

0.0% (0)

0.0% (0)

VANILLA-llama

6.8% (12)

19.2% (5)

13.0% (3)

13.3% (2)

4.1% (2)

0.0% (0)

0.0% (0)

T OOL G EN-llama (ours)

8.5% (15)

23.1% (6)

13.0% (3)

20.0% (3)

4.1% (2)

2.0% (1)

0.0% (0)

R EPO C ODER-llama

10.8% (19)

26.9% (7)

17.4% (4)

0.0% (0)

10.2% (5)

2.0% (1)

16.7% (2)

ragT OOL G EN-llama (ours)

10.8% (19)

34.6% (9)

8.7% (2)

6.7% (1)

6.1% (3)

0.0% (0)

33.3% (4)

execution-based metrics across the base models, with a consistent and acceptable additional latency overhead.
SUMMARY: Our tool-integrated generation approach
consistently improves or maintains dependency-based
and execution-based metrics while achieving competitive
similarity-based metrics across various model architectures
and parameter scales. This suggests that our approach is
versatile and has the potential for broader applicability
with other base models in repository-level code generation.
VI. D ISCUSSION
A. Case Study
Figure 7 depicts three specific examples using VANILLAllama and T OOL G EN-llama. Each row corresponds to an example, presenting the description, ground truth, code generated
by VANILLA-llama, and code generated by T OOL G EN-llama.
SUMMARY: Our tool-integrated generation approach,
Example 1: The code generated by T OOL G EN-llama
T OOL G EN, demonstrates high efficiency in repository-level
successfully predicts the member “_value” in the class
code generation, with latency ranging from 0.63 to 2.34
“Counter”, while VANILLA-llama incorrectly predicts an
seconds for generating each function. This efficiency is
undefined member “value”, resulting in a no-member error.
attributed to predicting the trigger token <COMP> and impleThis difference can be attributed to T OOL G EN’s integration of
menting a caching mechanism for completion suggestions.
the autocompletion tool, which helps the code LLMs recognize
necessary dependencies like user-defined attributes/members.
E. RQ5: Generalizability
Example 2: Both VANILLA-llama and T OOL G EN-llama
Based on the results presented in Table II and Table III, generate incorrect code that fails some test cases. After
our tool-integrated generation approach consistently enhances reviewing the description and the ground-truth, we find
performance in dependency-based metrics while maintaining that the description is incomplete in expressing the desired
comparable similarity-based metrics across various model ar- functionality. As noted, the description only mentions changing
chitectures (decoder-only and encoder-decoder) and parameter “w:st="” to “w-st="”, but the actual desired functionality
scales (ranging from 124 million to 7 billion). According to in the ground-truth is to handle all strings matching the
Table IV and Figure 6, our approach improves or maintains pattern “\bw:[a-z]{1,}=\"”. Both VANILLA-llama and
Fig. 6: Results of efficiency evaluation.

Description

Ground-Truth

dep: self._count:
a user-defined attibute

incomplete functionality description
The description suggests changing
w:st=" to w-st=", but the ground-truth
code handles all strings matching the
pattern \bw:[a-z]{1,}=\".

dep: cls._get_service:
a user-defined function
dep: ServiceName.PLUGINS_MANAGER
a user-defined attribute

Vanilla-llama

ToolGen-llama

no-member error
'Counter' instance has no 'value' member

pass lint and test cases

fail some test cases
It only changes w:st=" to w-st=" and does
not handle all strings matching the
pattern \bw:[a-z]{1,}=\".

fail some test cases
It only changes w:st=" to w-st=" and
does not handle all strings matching the
pattern \bw:[a-z]{1,}=\".

fail lint and test case
dep: cls._get_service
dep: ServiceName.PLUGINS_MANAGER

fail lint and test case
dep: cls._get_service
dep: ServiceName.PLUGINS_MANAGER

Fig. 7: Case study of three specific examples. Additional explanatory notes are marked with gray boxes . In the notes, "dep:
xxx" denotes a dependency necessary in the generated code.

T OOL G EN-llama follow the description and generate code that deduce attributes defined within the argument type. In the
satisfies this incomplete functionality. This finding highlights future, we plan to explore the integration of comprehensive
the challenges posed by low-quality descriptions in real-world type inference tools, such as learning-based tools, into the code
generation scenarios and reveals quality issues in existing generation process alongside autocompletion tools to enhance
benchmarks.
Python code generation.
Example 3: There are two crucial dependenGreedy Next Token Prediction in Generation Process: During
cies,
namely
“cls._get_service()”
and the generation process, we employ a greedy strategy for next
“ServiceName.PLUGINS_MANAGER”,
necessary
to token prediction, where the token with the highest probability
realize the required functionality. VANILLA-llama fails is selected using the ARGMAX function. This greedy prediction
to predict both dependencies and instead outputs non- strategy can occasionally lead the model to choose sub-optimal
existent dependencies like “cls._plugins_manager” tokens for subsequent steps, resulting in code that may not be of
and “PluginManager()”, causing the generated the high quality. To address this issue, we intend to investigate
code to fail lint checks and test cases. For T OOL G EN- the incorporation of techniques such as beam search and other
llama, although it successfully predicts the dependency advanced decoding methods into our tool-integrated generation
“cls._get_service()”,
it
fails
to
predict process to mitigate the challenges posed by greedy prediction.
“ServiceName.PLUGINS_MANAGER” because the model
Dependency-based Evaluation Metrics: In the computation of
chooses “cls” instead of “ServiceName” when starting
the two repository-level evaluation metrics, namely Dependency
predicting the argument for “cls._get_service()”. This
Coverage and Static Validity Rate, we employ static analysis
misleads the generation in an incorrect direction, resulting in
to identify target expressions and perform lint examinations.
the failure of the final code. This example also highlights
Similar to the autocompletion tools, these static tools may
the challenges of applying code LLMs in practical code
introduce a degree of inaccuracy into the calculated metrics.
generation, even when integrating autocompletion tools to
However, it is essential to note that this does not significantly
avoid certain dependency issues. Introducing an incorrect
impact the demonstrated effectiveness of T OOL G EN, as the
token at any critical step in the generation process can result
baseline metrics are also determined using the same static
in the production of erroneous code.
analysis.
B. Limitations
Integration and Comparison with SOTA Closed-source LLMs:
Static Autocompletion Tools for Dynamically Typed Program- Our approach can be applied to any encoder-decoder or decoderming Languages: Currently, our implementation of T OOL G EN only models. However, for the most state-of-the-art (SOTA)
is specific to Python, a dynamically typed programming LLMs like GPT-3.5 and GPT-4, integrating the trigger insertion
language. However, the autocompletion tools used in T OOL G EN and tool-integrated decoding process faces challenges due to
rely on static analysis, which can sometimes fail to trigger their closed-source nature and impracticality for fine-tuning.
for certain repository-level dependencies. For instance, when In the future, we may explore the possibility of integrating
the type of a function parameter cannot be explicitly inferred autocompletion tools into such closed-source LLMs in a
through static analysis, autocompletion tools may struggle to non-tuning manner. In our evaluation, we do not compare

T OOL G EN with these SOTA closed-source LLMs, as our goal
is to assess the effectiveness of integrating autocompletion
tools for repository-level code generation. Therefore, we focus
on comparing the performance of T OOL G EN, VANILLA, and
R EPO C ODER under the same base models.

considering context from the entire codebase, previous changes,
and specific instructions.
In this study, we tackle the challenges associated with
repository-level code generation by seamlessly integrating
autocompletion tools into the generation process of code LLMs.

C. Threats to Validity

B. Incorporating External Tools into LLMs
Internal Threats: The first internal threat pertains to potential
Recent research [30], [31], [50]–[58] has explored the
data quality issues common in learning-based approaches.
integration of external tools (e.g., search engines, web browsers,
To mitigate this threat, we construct our augmented dataset
calculators, and python interpreters) into the LLM generation
and evaluation benchmark dataset using the widely adopted
process, aiming to address their limitations in certain generation
CodeSearchNet dataset, which serves as a reliable source
scenarios. For instance, Schick et al. propose ToolFormer [30],
for pretraining and evaluating various code models. Another
which augments datasets to instruct LLMs on invoking existing
internal threat pertains to the potential data leakage for
arithmetic calculators, effectively reducing errors in generated
CodeLlama, as the code repositories in the benchmark dataset
text related to arithmetic calculations. Building upon this idea,
may have been encountered by CodeLlama during its preZhang et al. introduce ToolCoder [31], designed to teach
training phase. However, our generalizability evaluation (RQ5)
LLMs how to utilize information-retrieval-based (IR-based)
provides evidence of consistent performance across the three
API search tools during code generation. While ToolCoder is
T OOL G EN variants, suggesting that the improvements achieved
effective in generating functionally correct standalone functions,
by T OOL G EN-llama in repository-level code generation are
it falls short in addressing repository-level dependencies,
not attributed to data leakage.
limiting its ability to resolve dependency errors. More relevant
External Threats: Our implementation and evaluation of
examples are Repilot [41], STALL+ [59], and MGD [60],
T OOL G EN are specific to the Python programming language.
which utilize code completion tools to filter out impractical
As a result, the findings may not be generalizable to other
suggestions made by LLMs, focusing on generating API/lineprogramming languages. Exploring the tool-integrated generalevel code completions and valid bug-fix patches rather than
tion process for different languages is a valuable direction for
entire functions.
future research.
In this paper, we integrate program-analysis-based autocompletion
tools into the code LLM generation process to facilitate
VII. R ELATED W ORK
repository-level code generation.
A. Code Generation
VIII. C ONCLUSION
Code generation has long been a central focus in the field
of software engineering. Recent developments have introduced
We present T OOL G EN, a novel approach that seamlessly
a range of large language models for code (code LLMs),
integrates
autocompletion tools into the code LLM generation
including Codex [3], CodeT5 [4], CodeT5+ [5], InCoder [6],
process
to
effectively address repository-level dependencies.
AlphaCode [7], CodeGen [8], and CodeLlama [12], built upon
T
OOL
G
EN
encompasses two crucial phases: Data Augmentathe Transformer model architecture [14]. These models, either
tion
and
Model
Fine-tuning, and Tool-integrated Code Generpretrained or fine-tuned on extensive code corpora, have the
ation.
Our
comprehensive
evaluation showcases T OOL G EN’s
capability to automatically generate code based on provided
improvements
in
the
two
introduced
dependency-level metrics
natural language descriptions.
and
a
widely
used
execution-based
metric
across three distinct
While these code LLMs have demonstrated significant
code
LLMs,
while
also
demonstrating
its
competitiveness in
effectiveness in generating standalone functions on existing
widely-recognized
similarity
metrics.
T
OOL G EN also demonbenchmarks like HumanEval [3] and MBPP [26], they face
substantial challenges when tasked with generating real-world strates high efficiency in repository-level code generation, due
functions within code repositories. The primary challenge stems to the offline fine-tuning with trigger insertion. Moreover, our
from their lack of awareness of repository-level dependencies, generalizability evaluation reaffirms T OOL G EN’s consistent
such as user-defined functions and attributes, during the performance when applied to diverse code LLMs, including
code generation process [27]. To address these challenges, various model architectures and scales.
researchers have proposed prompt engineering approaches
R EFERENCES
to make code LLMs aware of repository-level dependencies.
Shrivastava et al. [48] introduced the repository-level prompt
[1] S. Black, L. Gao, P. Wang, C. Leahy, and S. Biderman, “GPT-Neo:
generator, a framework for generating context-aware prompts
Large Scale Autoregressive Language Modeling with Mesh-Tensorflow,”
Mar. 2021, If you use this software, please cite it using these metadata.
without requiring access to the weights of the LLM. Bairi et
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5297715
al. [49] presented CodePlan, a task-agnostic framework that
[2] B. Wang and A. Komatsuzaki, “GPT-J-6B: A 6 Billion Parametreats repository-level coding as a planning problem, using
ter Autoregressive Language Model,” https://github.com/kingoflolz/
innovative techniques to generate multi-step code edits while
mesh-transformer-jax, May 2021.

[3] M. Chen, J. Tworek, H. Jun, Q. Yuan, H. P. de Oliveira Pinto, J. Kaplan,
H. Edwards, Y. Burda, N. Joseph, G. Brockman, A. Ray, R. Puri,
G. Krueger, M. Petrov, H. Khlaaf, G. Sastry, P. Mishkin, B. Chan,
S. Gray, N. Ryder, M. Pavlov, A. Power, L. Kaiser, M. Bavarian,
C. Winter, P. Tillet, F. P. Such, D. Cummings, M. Plappert, F. Chantzis,
E. Barnes, A. Herbert-Voss, W. H. Guss, A. Nichol, A. Paino, N. Tezak,
J. Tang, I. Babuschkin, S. Balaji, S. Jain, W. Saunders, C. Hesse,
A. N. Carr, J. Leike, J. Achiam, V. Misra, E. Morikawa, A. Radford,
M. Knight, M. Brundage, M. Murati, K. Mayer, P. Welinder, B. McGrew,
D. Amodei, S. McCandlish, I. Sutskever, and W. Zaremba, “Evaluating
large language models trained on code,” CoRR, vol. abs/2107.03374,
2021. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.03374
[4] Y. Wang, W. Wang, S. R. Joty, and S. C. H. Hoi, “Codet5:
Identifier-aware unified pre-trained encoder-decoder models for code
understanding and generation,” in Proceedings of the 2021 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2021,
Virtual Event / Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, 7-11 November, 2021,
M. Moens, X. Huang, L. Specia, and S. W. Yih, Eds. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2021, pp. 8696–8708. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2021.emnlp-main.685
[5] Y. Wang, H. Le, A. Gotmare, N. D. Q. Bui, J. Li, and S. C. H. Hoi,
“Codet5+: Open code large language models for code understanding
and generation,” in Proceedings of the 2023 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023, Singapore,
December 6-10, 2023, H. Bouamor, J. Pino, and K. Bali, Eds.
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2023, pp. 1069–1088.
[Online]. Available: https://aclanthology.org/2023.emnlp-main.68
[6] D. Fried, A. Aghajanyan, J. Lin, S. Wang, E. Wallace, F. Shi,
R. Zhong, S. Yih, L. Zettlemoyer, and M. Lewis, “Incoder: A
generative model for code infilling and synthesis,” in The Eleventh
International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023,
Kigali, Rwanda, May 1-5, 2023. OpenReview.net, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://openreview.net/pdf?id=hQwb-lbM6EL
[7] Y. Li, D. H. Choi, J. Chung, N. Kushman, J. Schrittwieser, R. Leblond,
T. Eccles, J. Keeling, F. Gimeno, A. D. Lago, T. Hubert, P. Choy,
C. de Masson d’Autume, I. Babuschkin, X. Chen, P. Huang, J. Welbl,
S. Gowal, A. Cherepanov, J. Molloy, D. J. Mankowitz, E. S. Robson,
P. Kohli, N. de Freitas, K. Kavukcuoglu, and O. Vinyals, “Competitionlevel code generation with alphacode,” CoRR, vol. abs/2203.07814,
2022. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.07814
[8] E. Nijkamp, B. Pang, H. Hayashi, L. Tu, H. Wang, Y. Zhou,
S. Savarese, and C. Xiong, “Codegen: An open large language
model for code with multi-turn program synthesis,” in The Eleventh
International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2023,
Kigali, Rwanda, May 1-5, 2023. OpenReview.net, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://openreview.net/pdf?id=iaYcJKpY2B_
[9] S. Black, S. Biderman, E. Hallahan, Q. Anthony, L. Gao,
L. Golding, H. He, C. Leahy, K. McDonell, J. Phang, M. Pieler,
U. S. Prashanth, S. Purohit, L. Reynolds, J. Tow, B. Wang,
and S. Weinbach, “Gpt-neox-20b: An open-source autoregressive
language model,” CoRR, vol. abs/2204.06745, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2204.06745
[10] L. B. Allal, R. Li, D. Kocetkov, C. Mou, C. Akiki, C. M. Ferrandis,
N. Muennighoff, M. Mishra, A. Gu, M. Dey, L. K. Umapathi,
C. J. Anderson, Y. Zi, J. Lamy-Poirier, H. Schoelkopf, S. Troshin,
D. Abulkhanov, M. Romero, M. Lappert, F. D. Toni, B. G. del Río,
Q. Liu, S. Bose, U. Bhattacharyya, T. Y. Zhuo, I. Yu, P. Villegas,
M. Zocca, S. Mangrulkar, D. Lansky, H. Nguyen, D. Contractor,
L. Villa, J. Li, D. Bahdanau, Y. Jernite, S. Hughes, D. Fried,
A. Guha, H. de Vries, and L. von Werra, “Santacoder: don’t reach
for the stars!” CoRR, vol. abs/2301.03988, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2301.03988
[11] R. Li, L. B. Allal, Y. Zi, N. Muennighoff, D. Kocetkov, C. Mou,
M. Marone, C. Akiki, J. Li, J. Chim, Q. Liu, E. Zheltonozhskii,
T. Y. Zhuo, T. Wang, O. Dehaene, M. Davaadorj, J. Lamy-Poirier,
J. Monteiro, O. Shliazhko, N. Gontier, N. Meade, A. Zebaze, M. Yee,
L. K. Umapathi, J. Zhu, B. Lipkin, M. Oblokulov, Z. Wang, R. M. V,
J. Stillerman, S. S. Patel, D. Abulkhanov, M. Zocca, M. Dey, Z. Zhang,
N. Moustafa-Fahmy, U. Bhattacharyya, W. Yu, S. Singh, S. Luccioni,
P. Villegas, M. Kunakov, F. Zhdanov, M. Romero, T. Lee, N. Timor,
J. Ding, C. Schlesinger, H. Schoelkopf, J. Ebert, T. Dao, M. Mishra,
A. Gu, J. Robinson, C. J. Anderson, B. Dolan-Gavitt, D. Contractor,
S. Reddy, D. Fried, D. Bahdanau, Y. Jernite, C. M. Ferrandis, S. Hughes,
T. Wolf, A. Guha, L. von Werra, and H. de Vries, “Starcoder: may

the source be with you!” CoRR, vol. abs/2305.06161, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.06161
[12] B. Rozière, J. Gehring, F. Gloeckle, S. Sootla, I. Gat, X. E. Tan,
Y. Adi, J. Liu, T. Remez, J. Rapin, A. Kozhevnikov, I. Evtimov,
J. Bitton, M. Bhatt, C. Canton-Ferrer, A. Grattafiori, W. Xiong,
A. Défossez, J. Copet, F. Azhar, H. Touvron, L. Martin, N. Usunier,
T. Scialom, and G. Synnaeve, “Code llama: Open foundation models
for code,” CoRR, vol. abs/2308.12950, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2308.12950
[13] F. Christopoulou, G. Lampouras, M. Gritta, G. Zhang, Y. Guo, Z. Li,
Q. Zhang, M. Xiao, B. Shen, L. Li, H. Yu, L. Yan, P. Zhou, X. Wang,
Y. Ma, I. Iacobacci, Y. Wang, G. Liang, J. Wei, X. Jiang, Q. Wang, and
Q. Liu, “Pangu-coder: Program synthesis with function-level language
modeling,” CoRR, vol. abs/2207.11280, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2207.11280
[14] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A. N. Gomez,
L. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin, “Attention is all you need,” in Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 30: Annual Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems 2017, December 4-9, 2017,
Long Beach, CA, USA, I. Guyon, U. von Luxburg, S. Bengio, H. M.
Wallach, R. Fergus, S. V. N. Vishwanathan, and R. Garnett, Eds., 2017,
pp. 5998–6008. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/
2017/hash/3f5ee243547dee91fbd053c1c4a845aa-Abstract.html
[15] C. Wang, J. Zhang, Y. Lou, M. Liu, W. Sun, Y. Liu, and X. Peng, “Tiger:
A generating-then-ranking framework for practical python type inference,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.02095, 2024.
[16] C. Wang, J. Liu, X. Peng, Y. Liu, and Y. Lou, “Boosting static resource
leak detection via llm-based resource-oriented intention inference,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2311.04448, 2023.
[17] C. Wang, Y. Lou, J. Liu, and X. Peng, “Generating variable explanations
via zero-shot prompt learning,” in 2023 38th IEEE/ACM International
Conference on Automated Software Engineering (ASE). IEEE, 2023,
pp. 748–760.
[18] C. Wang, K. Huang, J. Zhang, Y. Feng, L. Zhang, Y. Liu, and X. Peng,
“How and why llms use deprecated apis in code completion? an empirical
study,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.09834, 2024.
[19] X. Du, M. Liu, K. Wang, H. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Chen, J. Feng, C. Sha,
X. Peng, and Y. Lou, “Evaluating large language models in class-level
code generation,” in Proceedings of the 46th IEEE/ACM International
Conference on Software Engineering, ICSE 2024, Lisbon , Portugal,
April 14 - 20, 2024. ACM, 2024, pp. 1496–1508. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3597503.3639219
[20] J. Zhang, C. Wang, A. Li, W. Sun, C. Zhang, W. Ma, and Y. Liu,
“An empirical study of automated vulnerability localization with large
language models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00287, 2024.
[21] J. Zhang, K. Huang, B. Chen, C. Wang, Z. Tian, and X. Peng, “Malicious
package detection in npm and pypi using a single model of malicious
behavior sequence,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2309.02637, 2023.
[22] X. Du, G. Zheng, K. Wang, J. Feng, W. Deng, M. Liu, B. Chen, X. Peng,
T. Ma, and Y. Lou, “Vul-rag: Enhancing llm-based vulnerability detection
via knowledge-level rag,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11147, 2024.
[23] Z. Yuan, Y. Lou, M. Liu, S. Ding, K. Wang, Y. Chen, and X. Peng,
“No more manual tests? evaluating and improving chatgpt for unit
test generation,” CoRR, vol. abs/2305.04207, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2305.04207
[24] Y. Wang, T. Jiang, M. Liu, J. Chen, and Z. Zheng, “Beyond functional
correctness: Investigating coding style inconsistencies in large language
models,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.00456, 2024.
[25] H. Touvron, L. Martin, K. Stone, P. Albert, A. Almahairi, Y. Babaei,
N. Bashlykov, S. Batra, P. Bhargava, S. Bhosale, D. Bikel, L. Blecher,
C. Canton-Ferrer, M. Chen, G. Cucurull, D. Esiobu, J. Fernandes,
J. Fu, W. Fu, B. Fuller, C. Gao, V. Goswami, N. Goyal, A. Hartshorn,
S. Hosseini, R. Hou, H. Inan, M. Kardas, V. Kerkez, M. Khabsa,
I. Kloumann, A. Korenev, P. S. Koura, M. Lachaux, T. Lavril, J. Lee,
D. Liskovich, Y. Lu, Y. Mao, X. Martinet, T. Mihaylov, P. Mishra,
I. Molybog, Y. Nie, A. Poulton, J. Reizenstein, R. Rungta, K. Saladi,
A. Schelten, R. Silva, E. M. Smith, R. Subramanian, X. E. Tan,
B. Tang, R. Taylor, A. Williams, J. X. Kuan, P. Xu, Z. Yan, I. Zarov,
Y. Zhang, A. Fan, M. Kambadur, S. Narang, A. Rodriguez, R. Stojnic,
S. Edunov, and T. Scialom, “Llama 2: Open foundation and fine-tuned
chat models,” CoRR, vol. abs/2307.09288, 2023. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2307.09288
[26] J. Austin, A. Odena, M. I. Nye, M. Bosma, H. Michalewski, D. Dohan,
E. Jiang, C. J. Cai, M. Terry, Q. V. Le, and C. Sutton, “Program

synthesis with large language models,” CoRR, vol. abs/2108.07732,
2021. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.07732
[27] H. Yu, B. Shen, D. Ran, J. Zhang, Q. Zhang, Y. Ma, G. Liang,
Y. Li, T. Xie, and Q. Wang, “Codereval: A benchmark of pragmatic
code generation with generative pre-trained models,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.00288, 2023.
[28] P. Vaithilingam, T. Zhang, and E. L. Glassman, “Expectation vs.
experience: Evaluating the usability of code generation tools powered
by large language models,” in CHI ’22: CHI Conference on Human
Factors in Computing Systems, New Orleans, LA, USA, 29 April 2022 5 May 2022, Extended Abstracts, S. D. J. Barbosa, C. Lampe, C. Appert,
and D. A. Shamma, Eds. ACM, 2022, pp. 332:1–332:7. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3491101.3519665
[29] Jedi - an awesome autocompletion, static analysis and refactoring library
for python. [Online]. Available: https://jedi.readthedocs.io/
[30] T. Schick, J. Dwivedi-Yu, R. Dessì, R. Raileanu, M. Lomeli,
L. Zettlemoyer, N. Cancedda, and T. Scialom, “Toolformer: Language
models can teach themselves to use tools,” CoRR, vol. abs/2302.04761,
2023. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2302.04761
[31] K. Zhang, G. Li, J. Li, Z. Li, and Z. Jin, “Toolcoder: Teach code
generation models to use apis with search tools,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.04032, 2023.
[32] Y. Wei, C. S. Xia, and L. Zhang, “Copiloting the copilots: Fusing
large language models with completion engines for automated program
repair,” in Proceedings of the 31st ACM Joint European Software
Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software
Engineering, ESEC/FSE 2023, San Francisco, CA, USA, December 3-9,
2023, S. Chandra, K. Blincoe, and P. Tonella, Eds. ACM, 2023, pp.
172–184. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3611643.3616271
[33] S. Lu, D. Guo, S. Ren, J. Huang, A. Svyatkovskiy, A. Blanco, C. B.
Clement, D. Drain, D. Jiang, D. Tang, G. Li, L. Zhou, L. Shou,
L. Zhou, M. Tufano, M. Gong, M. Zhou, N. Duan, N. Sundaresan, S. K.
Deng, S. Fu, and S. Liu, “Codexglue: A machine learning benchmark
dataset for code understanding and generation,” in Proceedings of
the Neural Information Processing Systems Track on Datasets and
Benchmarks 1, NeurIPS Datasets and Benchmarks 2021, December
2021, virtual, J. Vanschoren and S. Yeung, Eds., 2021. [Online].
Available: https://datasets-benchmarks-proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/
2021/hash/c16a5320fa475530d9583c34fd356ef5-Abstract-round1.html
[34] H. Chen, Y. Huang, Z. Liu, X. Chen, F. Zhou, and X. Luo,
“Automatically detecting the scopes of source code comments,”
J. Syst. Softw., vol. 153, pp. 45–63, 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2019.03.010
[35] Y. Huang, H. Guo, X. Ding, J. Shu, X. Chen, X. Luo, Z. Zheng,
and X. Zhou, “A comparative study on method comment and inline
comment,” ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol., vol. 32, no. 5, pp.
126:1–126:26, 2023. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3582570
[36] E. J. Hu, Y. Shen, P. Wallis, Z. Allen-Zhu, Y. Li, S. Wang, L. Wang,
and W. Chen, “Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models,”
in The Tenth International Conference on Learning Representations,
ICLR 2022, Virtual Event, April 25-29, 2022. OpenReview.net, 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=nZeVKeeFYf9
[37] Argmax function. [Online]. Available: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arg_
max
[38] Trie structure. [Online]. Available: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trie
[39] X. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Wan, F. Mi, Y. Li, P. Zhou, J. Liu,
H. Wu, X. Jiang, and Q. Liu, “Compilable neural code generation
with compiler feedback,” in Findings of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27,
2022, S. Muresan, P. Nakov, and A. Villavicencio, Eds. Association
for Computational Linguistics, 2022, pp. 9–19. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.findings-acl.2
[40] H. Husain, H. Wu, T. Gazit, M. Allamanis, and M. Brockschmidt,
“Codesearchnet challenge: Evaluating the state of semantic code
search,” CoRR, vol. abs/1909.09436, 2019. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.09436
[41] F. Zhang, B. Chen, Y. Zhang, J. Keung, J. Liu, D. Zan, Y. Mao, J. Lou,
and W. Chen, “Repocoder: Repository-level code completion through
iterative retrieval and generation,” in Proceedings of the 2023 Conference
on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP 2023,
Singapore, December 6-10, 2023, H. Bouamor, J. Pino, and K. Bali,
Eds. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2023, pp. 2471–2484.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.151
[42] K. Papineni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, and W. Zhu, “Bleu: a method for
automatic evaluation of machine translation,” in Proceedings of the 40th

Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, July
6-12, 2002, Philadelphia, PA, USA. ACL, 2002, pp. 311–318. [Online].
Available: https://aclanthology.org/P02-1040/
[43] A. Svyatkovskiy, S. K. Deng, S. Fu, and N. Sundaresan, “Intellicode
compose: code generation using transformer,” in ESEC/FSE ’20:
28th ACM Joint European Software Engineering Conference and
Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering, Virtual
Event, USA, November 8-13, 2020, P. Devanbu, M. B. Cohen, and
T. Zimmermann, Eds. ACM, 2020, pp. 1433–1443. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3368089.3417058
[44] Pylint. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/pylint-dev/pylint
[45] S. Bengio, O. Vinyals, N. Jaitly, and N. Shazeer, “Scheduled
sampling for sequence prediction with recurrent neural networks,”
in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 28: Annual
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems 2015, December
7-12, 2015, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, C. Cortes, N. D. Lawrence,
D. D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, and R. Garnett, Eds., 2015, pp. 1171–
1179. [Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2015/
hash/e995f98d56967d946471af29d7bf99f1-Abstract.html
[46] R. Paulus, C. Xiong, and R. Socher, “A deep reinforced model for
abstractive summarization,” in 6th International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR 2018, Vancouver, BC, Canada, April 30 - May 3,
2018, Conference Track Proceedings. OpenReview.net, 2018. [Online].
Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=HkAClQgA[47] K. Arora, L. E. Asri, H. Bahuleyan, and J. C. K. Cheung, “Why
exposure bias matters: An imitation learning perspective of error
accumulation in language generation,” in Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27,
2022, S. Muresan, P. Nakov, and A. Villavicencio, Eds. Association
for Computational Linguistics, 2022, pp. 700–710. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.findings-acl.58
[48] D. Shrivastava, H. Larochelle, and D. Tarlow, “Repository-level prompt
generation for large language models of code,” in International
Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2023, 23-29 July 2023,
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
A. Krause, E. Brunskill, K. Cho, B. Engelhardt, S. Sabato, and
J. Scarlett, Eds., vol. 202. PMLR, 2023, pp. 31 693–31 715. [Online].
Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/shrivastava23a.html
[49] R. Bairi, A. Sonwane, A. Kanade, V. D. C, A. Iyer, S. Parthasarathy,
S. K. Rajamani, B. Ashok, and S. Shet, “Codeplan: Repository-level
coding using llms and planning,” CoRR, vol. abs/2309.12499, 2023.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2309.12499
[50] B. Paranjape, S. M. Lundberg, S. Singh, H. Hajishirzi, L. Zettlemoyer,
and M. T. Ribeiro, “ART: automatic multi-step reasoning and tool-use
for large language models,” CoRR, vol. abs/2303.09014, 2023. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.09014
[51] M. Komeili, K. Shuster, and J. Weston, “Internet-augmented
dialogue generation,” in Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), ACL 2022, Dublin, Ireland, May 22-27, 2022,
S. Muresan, P. Nakov, and A. Villavicencio, Eds. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2022, pp. 8460–8478. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.acl-long.579
[52] A. Lazaridou, E. Gribovskaya, W. Stokowiec, and N. Grigorev,
“Internet-augmented language models through few-shot prompting for
open-domain question answering,” CoRR, vol. abs/2203.05115, 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.05115
[53] R. Thoppilan, D. D. Freitas, J. Hall, N. Shazeer, A. Kulshreshtha,
H. Cheng, A. Jin, T. Bos, L. Baker, Y. Du, Y. Li, H. Lee, H. S. Zheng,
A. Ghafouri, M. Menegali, Y. Huang, M. Krikun, D. Lepikhin, J. Qin,
D. Chen, Y. Xu, Z. Chen, A. Roberts, M. Bosma, Y. Zhou, C. Chang,
I. Krivokon, W. Rusch, M. Pickett, K. S. Meier-Hellstern, M. R.
Morris, T. Doshi, R. D. Santos, T. Duke, J. Soraker, B. Zevenbergen,
V. Prabhakaran, M. Diaz, B. Hutchinson, K. Olson, A. Molina,
E. Hoffman-John, J. Lee, L. Aroyo, R. Rajakumar, A. Butryna,
M. Lamm, V. Kuzmina, J. Fenton, A. Cohen, R. Bernstein, R. Kurzweil,
B. A. y Arcas, C. Cui, M. Croak, E. H. Chi, and Q. Le, “Lamda:
Language models for dialog applications,” CoRR, vol. abs/2201.08239,
2022. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2201.08239
[54] K. Shuster, M. Komeili, L. Adolphs, S. Roller, A. Szlam, and J. Weston,
“Language models that seek for knowledge: Modular search & generation
for dialogue and prompt completion,” in Findings of the Association
for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP 2022, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates, December 7-11, 2022, Y. Goldberg, Z. Kozareva, and Y. Zhang,

Eds. Association for Computational Linguistics, 2022, pp. 373–393.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2022.findings-emnlp.27
[55] R. Nakano, J. Hilton, S. Balaji, J. Wu, L. Ouyang, C. Kim,
C. Hesse, S. Jain, V. Kosaraju, W. Saunders, X. Jiang, K. Cobbe,
T. Eloundou, G. Krueger, K. Button, M. Knight, B. Chess, and
J. Schulman, “Webgpt: Browser-assisted question-answering with human
feedback,” CoRR, vol. abs/2112.09332, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.09332
[56] K. Cobbe, V. Kosaraju, M. Bavarian, M. Chen, H. Jun, L. Kaiser,
M. Plappert, J. Tworek, J. Hilton, R. Nakano, C. Hesse, and
J. Schulman, “Training verifiers to solve math word problems,” CoRR,
vol. abs/2110.14168, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/
2110.14168
[57] L. Gao, A. Madaan, S. Zhou, U. Alon, P. Liu, Y. Yang, J. Callan, and
G. Neubig, “PAL: program-aided language models,” in International

Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2023, 23-29 July 2023,
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA, ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
A. Krause, E. Brunskill, K. Cho, B. Engelhardt, S. Sabato, and
J. Scarlett, Eds., vol. 202. PMLR, 2023, pp. 10 764–10 799. [Online].
Available: https://proceedings.mlr.press/v202/gao23f.html
[58] W. Chen, X. Ma, X. Wang, and W. W. Cohen, “Program of thoughts
prompting: Disentangling computation from reasoning for numerical
reasoning tasks,” CoRR, vol. abs/2211.12588, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2211.12588
[59] J. Liu, Y. Chen, M. Liu, X. Peng, and Y. Lou, “Stall+: Boosting llm-based
repository-level code completion with static analysis,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2406.10018, 2024.
[60] L. A. Agrawal, A. Kanade, N. Goyal, S. K. Lahiri, and S. K. Rajamani,
“Guiding language models of code with global context using monitors,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.10763, 2023.

